# dat protocol Community communication 

20 Dec 2018

## People

* Martin Heidegger (@martinheidegger)
* Franz K.H. (@Frando)
* Diego Paez (@dpaez)

## Agenda

* Introduce the comm-comm WG, discuss goals. 

## Meeting Notes

* @martinheidegger introduce himself. He is a freelancer developer. He is using Dat in a project where they are managing petabytes of data. They've evaluated data center costs (among other variables)  and decided to move forward using Dat for such a job. 
* @martinheidegger also mention he have contributed with different projects on the Dat ecosystem. One of these is Dat-desktop.
* @Frando introduce himself. He is a freelance developer currently working on a decentralized media project where they are dealing with short-lived resources using Dat. They have created an app similar to Dat-desktop called [archipel](https://github.com/archipel-somoco/archipel) with multiwriter support. He is also working on a modhle called [hyperlib](https://github.com/Frando/hyperlib) where he is exploring the concept of _mounts_ in Dat.
* @dpaez introduces himself, he is representing [GEUT](https://github.com/geut) a new JS company where they are looking to explore new products powered by Dat. He also mention that they were running a [Dat workshop](https://github.com/geut/dat-workshop) recently at NodeconfAr and at local meetups events.
* There was interest in greater the use of DAT in a web application context.

## Decisions Made

* Maintain a weekly comm-comm meeting.
* Promote this space as a place where the community (individuals or companies) can tell how they are using Dat.
* Improve userland modules discoverability. This could give more visibility to existing projects that others could find usefull and/or even become contributors.

## ACTION ITEMS

* Create a repo to showcase existing dat projects, modules, apps, services, etc.
