# Meeting #6

**People**

- [Martin](https://github.com/martinheidegger)
- [Duncan](https://github.com/vtduncan)
- [Aral](https://github.com/aral)

Martin is late! 😅 But good because at 18:00 JST Duncan can join! 😍
Yeah!

Aral didn't know that the meetup was held and joined later on.
For some reason Jitsu broke down when both Duncan **and** Aral joined which is why we switched to https://appear.in for the meetup.


## How-dat-works is finished!

Duncan published how-dat-works 🎉 Next steps are not clear but he loves to get some feedback.

## Response about how-dat-works

Aral is enjoying how-dat-works but he is worried about understanding the state of the DAT ecosystem. Having an overview over the state of multiwriter. What are people working? Which systems are deprecated/old? Would be really good to have as he is researching a lot of thing and doesn't really get a grasp around the system.

Martin noticed that the DHT section is missing on how-dat-works. Which segwayed into...

## p2p-networks progress update

Martin spent the week trying to figure out how discovery-swarm & hyperswarm works and missed the was missing this particular section of how-dat-works dearly.

He explained the difference between the "version 2"-dht and the "hyperswarm"-dht and how he spent half the week understanding that hyperswarm-dht puts keys and values in the same number-space while others use different spaces.

## What is the state of Multiwriter in DAT?

Aral is working on [Hypha](https://source.ind.ie/hypha/spikes/diceware). In the past _(a few years back)_ he used to work on "heartbeat" → a project developed in a mixture of **go**. The person he was working with left and now he is looking at DAT as a solution for his project. He is sharing his progress on Hypha and DAT on his blog: https://ar.al/


## High level overview of use-cases

Examples of how to implement different use-cases. E.g. how to implement multi-person chat? How to implement private spaces on Dat? How to make a space that people can join? How to make a space that people can be de-authorized from?

On that regard there has been some exchange between Martin & Aral.

## Reason for non-p2p-support

Martin explains his struggle about getting any p2p project on-the-way in Japan - its like a swearword to organizations - which means that he is putting effort on trying to get those systems to support it. Making sure that p2p is not mentioned and giving alternative transports (the reason why Martin is working on the p2p-networking stack, and starting discussions around that topic such as [sending dat over https](https://github.com/datproject/discussions/issues/87).
Aral mentioned that he appreciates DAT flying under the radar and not having corporate supporters. Focussing on the wrong aspects - corporate aspects - could easily undermine the goals of the DAT project. He is looking with trouble at the influence Google excerts over the Web platform and strongly suggest caution.
