# dat protocol Community communication 

07 Feb 2019

## People

* Phil ([@philcockfield](https://github.com/philcockfield))
* Martin ([@martinheidegger](https://github.com/martinheidegger))

## Agenda

* No previous action items

## Meeting Notes

* Phil arrived first in the chatroom and was wondering about timezone errors, even though the new issue clearly stated Auckland...
* Martin was washing the dishes after dinner and 20 minutes after the meeting the started and :bulb: noticed that he completly forgot the call...
* ... :sweat_smile: ...
* Phil is from New Zealand - the same town where [@vtduncan](https://github.com/vtduncan) is from. 
* Phil is working on _(coincidentally named)_ [Hypersheet](https://hypersheet.io/) which is a collaborative spreadsheet software.
* When reading through what DAT is doing, it seemed like DAT was providing specific vocabulary and concepts for a number internal technical design conversations where the architectural were being deferred (with hand waving), until the time came to deal with them in the product...(which is now)
* We discussed the state of DAT specifically:
    * Is DAT ready for production?
    * What changes to expect in 2019
    * What happened in 2018
    * How to find which module means what _(specifically: what is the difference between hyper* and DAT)_
        * Martin noted that hyper*, in detail has the sync logic behind a replication-duplex stream accessible through `.replicate`. Any way a stream can be obtained will work.
             Which should work particularly well with custom app development.
    * What networking issues does DAT deal with and how are they to be solved
* Phil was enthusiastic in regards to HyperSheet. We talked about distributed code. Each cell in a spreadsheet would do an operation on a lambda environment.
* Martin, impressed with the concept, mentioned that this could be particularly interesting to integrate heavy-duty remote computing: Having a Cell change trigger visual neural networks or big-data computing could become a very powerful tool.
* Martin referenced [darp2](https://github.com/dotloom/darp2) as an attempt to do state-based remote computation on data.
* We further talked about the advantages of p2p web in respect to the GDPR in europe, where "the-right-to-be-forgotten" and other rules play in favor of DAT. When all data associated with a user stays in a DAT drive,
    software could be written that doesn't need to be managed on a server and could lead to a sort-of Desktop application for an internet age.
