# Dat comm-comm meeting notes

25 May 2019

## People
- Mauve (@rangermauve, Dat)
- Diego (@dpaez, GEUT)
- Karissa (@karissa, Dat core)
- Werle (ara)
- noffle
- konobi
- chrisnovello
- substack
- cblgh

## Agenda

No previous items

## Meeting Notes
- Mauve mentions interest on SSB and how can the two projects can collaborate more.
    - Minimum Spanning Trees?
- DTN was great. Let's do a quick recap/takeaways:
    - karissa takeaway wants to highlight the importance of events like DTN. DTN 2020? It would be super nice to have this events with more regularity.
    - Mauve, enjoy the chance to see all the progress on different modules and projects, like all the work that mafintosh mention in his talk. Also cabal progress.
    - Werle mentions the importance on improving our communication on the benefits (UX, DX) related to P2P/offline-first apps/arq. Showcase these benefits on a simple and direct way can have a huge possitive impact (going viral).
        - bring more content creators to the P2P space could be mutually beneficial
        - importance of social interaction/networks on the decentralized space
    - noffle wants to highlight something similar to werle, the community support and creation on the P2P scene, there is a lot going on.
    - cblgh says hi. Content-moderation was an important topic for cblgh. groups/spaces/private-channels.
    - **Post DTN projects**
        - Karissa mentions the intention of running some sort of hackaton/event about improving docs/DX. First week of June. (aka: "pain on the dats")
        - new irc channel: `#datx` (for developer experience!!!)
        - Mauve mentions that it would be great to find/identify the smaller pieces so we can easy for the community to contribute/help to the project. Maybe talk with dominic about this.
        - Noffle was working on https://github.com/noffle/hypercore-private-box
        - Noffle mentions https://github.com/telamon/ciphercore
        - werle puts a new experiment related to encrypt/decrypt messages. Repo link coming soon. Similar to previously mentioned projects.
        - werle also mentions their collaboration with the `datcxx` project from heapwolf.
- DAT protocol on other languages
    - datcxx https://github.com/datcxx
    - wasm/wasi support?
- DAT future goals
    - karissa mentions a need for _stability_
    - with stability patterns can appear, then wrappers, nice defaults. Reach that level of simplicity as a goal. Put more effort on these iterations.
    - starter kits! (cli starter kits maybe?)
    - vncnt mentions: p2plib does it really well with ‘bundling’ features, by abstracting the ‘big decisions / interfaces’ that one needs to know about creating a dat app. I.e. they did networking, protocol, etc. https://libp2p.io/bundles/
    - Mauve shares https://github.com/datprotocol/DEPs/issues/60
    - use nice hi-level apis in beaker also outside of beaker
        - crawlers could potentially be part of this
    - What mauve will be working on: https://github.com/datproject/planning/issues/7
- hyperdrive/hyperswarm progress
    - feels like hyperdivision team is doing it great and from DTN talks there is this feeling of good progress so maybe new versions are coming pretty soon.
        - https://github.com/hyperswarm/network/pull/24
        - https://github.com/mafintosh/hyperdrive/pull/233
    - ARA is making use of some of these modules now.
    - diff btw beaker experience and dat-js based apps.
        - the benefit of the dat SDK would be to have an app that is built on this high-level api should work in traditional browsers (using webrtc) and in beaker or dat-mobile (using udp/tcp) without downloading a separate app!
        - then developers can just focus on front-end code and not on building electron toolchains
        - cross-platforms challenges for dat apps.

- New native app:
    - https://twitter.com/RangerMauve/status/1131281025206804481
    - similar to beaker, based on Firefox OS. by sammcbeth (dat-fox)
    - available on android app store pretty soon.
    - https://github.com/webmixedreality/exokit/
