# dat protocol Community communication

01 Aug 2019

## People

* [Diego](https://github.com/dpaez) [[GEUT](https://geutstudio.com)]
* [Mauve](https://github.com/rangermauve) [[Dat](datproject)]
* [DeltaF1]()
* [substack](https://github.com/substack) [[peermaps](https://peermaps.org/)]
* [Paul Frazee](https://github.com/pfrazee) [[beaker]()]
* [ADD YOURSELF HERE]

## Agenda

* Nothing

## Meeting Notes

- Mauve tell their experience on the recent dweb camp.
  - Mauve had the chance to meet different groups/communities working on the decentralized scene. Lots of talks, common problems.
  - Interest on textile, what we can learn from the top level protocol to use on the dat-sdk.
- Mauve has been rewriting [`dat-store`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dat-store) using the new dat-sdk. This gave him a lot of first-hand insights.
- Lots of news lately: https://hackmd.io/VamhcsPjTcCvBgn4Sfr_0Q
  - hyperdrive v10 release :tada:
  - hyperswarm
  - hyperdrive daemon
- Funding opportunities.
- _Dogfooding_ on the dat ecosystem
  - benefits of using your own modules
    - create your own ecosystem
    - first hand feedback
- Paul shares some updates about beaker blue
  - He is going to work on update it to dat 2.0
  - Lots of UI work (new editor!)
- Alternatives to hyperswarm hole punching
  - privacy concerns
  - ip leaking
  - utp benefits
  - i2p has interesting privacy trade-off customization
- substack updates
  - has been reading/working with db improvements (bit level) => `peermq`
  - has been using https://licensezero.com/ lately
- licensing alternatives
  - open source funding
  - open source as contributing to the commons

