# Meetup 2019/8/15

## People

- [Martin](https://github.com/martinheidegger) - Developer usually in Japan now in Austria. Talking about 
- [Eric Rangell](https://github.com/erangell) - Member of Digital Life Collective, trying to stay up-to-date.
    - [Presentations (use of Beaker, Pushpin)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLOW4_Hp8_913RkYAmLWVMPqXo-8WIfZOE)
    - [Opportunities for Decentralized Web Technologies in Education](https://github.com/erangell/Articles/blob/master/OpportunitiesForDecentralizedTechInEducation.md)
    - [Climb DAT Mountain prototype code (Polymer)](https://github.com/DigitalLifeCollective/ClimbDATMountain/tree/master/prototype/src)
    - dat://erangell-climb-dat-mountain-prototype.hashbase.io/
    - [DigLife Community Calendar](https://diglife.com/community-calendar/)
- [Sean Billig](https://github.com/sbillig) - Contemplating on collaborative content curation - working on scuttlebut stuff ... in rust.
- [Ilya Kreymer](https://github.com/ikreymer) - Web archiving tool - in the process of integrating that. [Desktop app](https://github.com/webrecorder/webrecorder-desktop) with initial Dat support.
- _Swapnil_ - From India, experience is limited with dat, but it is new and everyone is excited about it. [His NPO](https://www.evidyaloka.org/) prepares online classes for unstable internet in remote India. DAT could help with preparing data for workshops.
- [Nina Breznik](https://github.com/ninabreznik) and [Alexander Praetorius](https://github.com/serapath) - are working with the ethereum foundation. We built [a little static-site-generator](https://wizardamigos.com/workshop_app/) for workshops. It could be re-wired to build to dat (instead of Github). We want to build a [search engine for code based on DAT](https://smartcontract.codes/). Health care sector where we use DAT to exchange data with doctors.
- _Matt Davis_ was at the dweb camp and co-found of changelabs and interested in using distributed technology to improve/change society and look at the social impact.
- [Chris Basham](https://bash.am) is a designer/developer, working for Indiana University, interested in the community and all the cool things people are doing.
- [Paul Frazee](https://github.com/pfrazee) - works on [Beaker Browser](https://beakerbrowser.com/) - _more or less_ 100% :wink:.

## Improvements in Beaker Browser.

- Improving tools working on & with web sites.
- Editor is directly integrated in the UI
- Moving from a separate editor, but the sidebar might work better.
- Session management works
- Mounting works by signing up. Where each user is having their own dat. and a social system is built 
- Themes that work like mounts.
- Terminal is shown online. Bash-like terminal to interact with the data. 
- Without DAT 2.0 

Q&A

**How is your progress? How are you this fast?** (Nina)

- Depending 
- The progress took a long time (2,5 yrs beaker); 
- Built up a large set of components over the past several years (2+ years of beaker and 2+ years of ssb prior to that)
- eg. terminal was written a year ago

**How is the data stored for each mount**(Swapnil)

- A dat contains all your user data.
- In dat 2.0 there will be a private 

### How does Identity work in DAT? (Eric Rangell)

> For people interested in education projects: Do you envision instructors using Beaker to build their own class sites?  Do you envision students using Beaker.social to interact and share work with each other?  Do you see the need for another identity provider (ex: keybase.io) to manage class users in front of the DAT sites for the class?

Currently you can (for example) create an online class using Beaker. What are the requirements for Identity for a class, and to what extent can it be implemented in DAT?  Is a self-sovereign identity tool like Keybase needed to manage a class in addition to [DAT/Beaker Identity](https://github.com/beakerbrowser/specs/blob/master/beaker-identities.md) What if a service like Keybase changes the rules or charges for accounts in the future?

_Ranger Mauve_: 
- mentions that we should not use central Identity. You receive the identity on a different channel. Example: [cabal](https://cabal.chat/) _(a decentralised chat)_.
- Mentioning a decentralized Identity concept based on dat.
- Relying on central service (eg keybase, or blockchain) means sacrificing offline-first functionality, and might not work if central service goes away.

If we get started with dat in the browser, we need several features, but not all of Beaker Browser. So we want to build something that works somehow on regular browsers but redirects to Beaker for a better experience.

## Multiwriter

[HyperDB](https://github.com/mafintosh/hyperdb/) is the closest we got to a functioning multiwriter. HyperDB has an authentication workflow that merges the changes together.

**Question: how to handle granting write access to a future device, eg. maybe save a qr code that a future device can scan (serapath)**

_Mauve:_ suggests that you could do that exact thing, eg save a bunch of unused write keys for future use. (Analogy: bitcoin wallet printer that generates a new wallet on the fly and prints it out)

_Chris Basham (in chat):_
Multifeed is another project that does multi-writer.
https://github.com/kappa-db/multifeed
Itâ€™s used for Kappa projects.
https://github.com/kappa-db/kappa-core
One great example of multi-writer with Dat.
https://blog.datproject.org/2018/05/14/dat-shopping-list/

## DAT 2.0

### mount demo (Paul)

- Kind of like a symlink; way to mount one dat into another dat
- example: make a wiki page a subdat of a personal dat
- beaker terminal:
    - a.mount('/wiki/...')
- Mounts are not necessarily like multiwriter but forums could be built like this.
- Scanning throught the archives would allow for a combined experience.
- Quicker lookup by reusing existing peers (skipping the peer lookup)

**Is there a way to create a filter?** (Nina)

Only the owner of the archive can do the mounting.
No control at the moment for mounting part of an archive.

**Would it be "that" inefficient to create on dat by file?** (Serapath)

There is not that "much" overhead for that. It should work but it its a bit hard.

**Does mounting support recursion?** (Mauve)

> seeding works same like regular dat's, but it optimizes the lookup for peers.

Code loading all the data is called ["hyperdrive-daemon"](https://github.com/andrewosh/hyperdrive-daemon). Its a background daemon that downloads and makes dats available.

**When we have mounts, how can we prevent a theme to download the whole mount?** (Martin)

_Pfrazee_ Right now, it would freely download all resources. We need to do maybe add some limitations in the browser so it doesn't download all by accident.

**How close is the new hyperdrive ready to be tested?**

_Pfrazee_ Fingers crossed but maybe by the end of August.

**What does the new version mean for the old dats?**

_Pfrazee_ We have a lot of breaking changes and a lot of backwards compatibility.

_Mauve_ has an example hack [hyperdrive-backwards](https://github.com/RangerMauve/hyperdrive-backwards).

If you are interested in contributing: Help implement hyperdrive-backwards.

It is a lot of work and we are thinking of the trade-off's between getting-it-done and getting-it-done-right.

**How can we support you?** (Nina)

Time constraints are a good problem. Budget to fund those people.

**Are you still enthusiastic about Polymer** (Eric)



**How do we get people involved**

_Martin:_ There are a lot of very old pull requests that have been (effectively) ignored, saying that PR's are welcome is a wrong statement and we should be either changing it or making sure that PR's become/are welcome.
_Paul:_ The reason why not much stuff hasn't been done is because [mafintosh](https://github.com/mafintosh) and [Andrew Osheroff](https://github.com/andrewosh) have been doing foundational re-architecturing (dat 2.0) and the tasks are not easy to categorize.

_Mauve:_ I want to be helping you, please talk to me if you have something that you want to get merged. [Gina Giampaolo](https://github.com/whoisgina) is consolidating dat repos (currently spread all over the place in personal github accounts), and writing documentation for people who are interested in helping.

_Nina:_ Instead of trying to contribute to dat it seems to be a good idea. 

_Paul:_ It's not NIH (not invented here) syndrome; we want to be able to welcome contributions from people. Eg. ipv6 isn't just a small change to some data structures, doing it properly requires deep knowledge of the architecture, and how the change will impact the replication stack, etc. knowledge which only the people currently working on it have. It's not currently easy for other people to contribute right now, but this should improve when 2.0 is finished.

_Mauve:_ I'm interested in improving the communication and making it easier for people to contribute.

_Paul:_ Less heads-down in beaker dev right now. I currently have the capacity to help answer questions, so feel free to ping me. (EVERYONE FLOOD HIM WITH QUESTIONS PLZ)

#### Chat links:
- https://dat.discourse.group/t/rebuilding-the-dat-website-proposed-site-map/79/4
- https://github.com/datprotocol/working-group/
