# dat protocol Community communication

29 Aug 2019

## People

* [Diego](https://github.com/dpaez) [[GEUT](https://geutstudio.com)]
* [Mauve](https://github.com/rangermauve) [[Dat](datproject)]
* [Paul Frazee](https://github.com/beakerbrowser/)
* [Edward Silverton](https://github.com/edsilv)
* Joshua
* Swapnil
* Martin Heideggar
* [Kevin Faaborg](https://ara.one)
* [Martin Acost](https://github.com/tinchoz49) [[GEUT](https://geutstudio.com)]

## Agenda

No previous items

## Meeting

### Intro

- Diego - one of the organizers of comm comm, works at GEUT, building decentralized stuff.
- Martin - Back in Japan and joining us at 3 AM. He organizes the other comm comm, times that are more accommodating to his timezone. Works on consento, uses the Dat stack. Looking forward to Dat 2.0 so he can work more on Dat desktop.
- Paul Frazee - Works on Beaker and helps with the protocol in general. Currently wrapping up the new version of Beaker which has Dat 2.0 and Unwalled Garden. Aiming for September for beta builds. (end of september for public prerelease)
- Josh - Going around the community. Working with Nina on a decentralized Dat pinning service in Berlin. Wanted to keep in touch with what everybody has been doing
- Kevin - Works on Ara Blocks. Got a desktop client called the Ara file manager, just put out a new version. Combines Dat and Etherium with their own crypto token so that Dat owners can sell access to a dat and seeders can earn rewards for seeding
- Edward - Working on Universal Viewer, viewer of cultural heritage. Experiments with Dat a lot, working with IIIF, figured out how to get it work in the Dat protocol for web annotations.
- Mauve, working on Dat-SDK these days. Compatible with Dat 1.0. Highly compatible with beaker and browsers. Also has an interest on dat & webvr.
- Swapnil - From India, new to Beaker browser and Dat. Learning the API and trying to build something on it. Interested in distributed apps in education, particularly in remote areas where internet is flaky so that they can download it and use it offline in the classroom.


### Web3 conference

- Diego Was at the web3 summit recently. It was really interesting. Wireline was presenting and he was with them. It was a decentralized conference targeting web, there was almost nothing about Dat, IPFS and Orbit, etc. Met Franz IRL which was nice. He's been contributing to Dat stuff. It's cool to meet people IRL from this community. Heard that Nina Breznik was there, didn't get a chance to meet her. This is what he was busy with last time.

### Dat 2.0

- Pfrazee:
    - *shares screen with new version of Beaker*.
    - Dat 2.0 has changes in the filesystem representation.
    - Brings in a FUSE based filesystem folder which works kinda like dropbox as a private filesystem you can store dat archives in.
    - This hyperdrive can be synced between devices.
    - In Beaker all your bookmarks are being stored as files in your private drive.
    - You can mount other dats as subfolders
    - Pinned archives are also stored in the private Dat
    - Getting to be like having your own operating system
    - Got a terminal program inside Beaker that's inspired by Bash - you can open it on a website and start browsing it
    - Interested in having user scripts within the shell so people can run build tools from inside Beaker
    - Able to drive the browser with commands in the terminal like `go` which can navigate to pages
    - New editor in sidebar which should help building websites or applications within the browser
    - New forking tool, forking existed for a while but this takes it further. Now when you fork there's a new interface for it, you can see where you forked from in the editor. You can merge changes from people's forks into your version.
    - Collaboration can be based on forks and merges between people's archives.

- Mauve: Will this require multiwriter? (the private drive)
- Pfrazee: Yes, so in the meantime it's private

- Mauve: How do forks work?
- Pfrazee: new "forkOf" field in the `dat.json`. Dat tracks this and indexes all the `forOf` links

- Martin: Regarding hyperdrive daemon - How do you plan to get that running on the clients? If Beaker is installed and a daemon is already running will it connect to it? If one isn't will it install it? If an old version is running will it install the new version?
- Pfrazee: The daemon is going to be shared. If it's running Beaker will connect to it. The daemon should run automatically if any clients are running. It'll auto shutdown if nothing is connected. Running in the background will require a client to be connected. Regarding versions, the clients should try to upgrade the daemon, and daemons should support backwards compatilbility. It's a tricky and breaking changes get complicated. Breaking changes should probably still do upgrades and old clients should too

- Martin: One of the things I like in the implementation is that you can basically specify everything (ports, bootstrap, etc). If the daemon is used as the de-facto standard, does that mean that the settings will be going in the daemon? What happens if two applications watn different configurations. Will they get to specify custom configurations?
- Pfrazee: The stack should be embeddable in addition to the daemon. If the daemon doesn't work for you, you can specify whatever you want yourself so that it's not conflicting.
- Kevin: That's what we're planning on doing with Ara. Reasoning is that I want to do a portable version where you can carry everything on a thumb drive. It's very difficult to keep two processes alive and talking to each other on Windows. Super excited about a unified top level API to make this stuff compatible. Glad there will be an option to run it all in one process.
- Pfrazee: The tradeoff is that embedding will require two processes running at the same time, also when using the daemon you can share datsets between clients. Until the daemon, Dats created on the CLI couldn't be written from Beaker and vise versa. Moving it into the Daemon helps share between them without worrying about conflicts.

- Kevin: Is this related to multiwriter?
- PFrazee: No, multiwriter is for multiple devices, the daemon is for multi process on a single device (single writer still). Multiwriter will help coordinate multiple devices. Still debating tradeoffs between high consistency and high availability (eventual consistency). Eventual consistency is more complex to implement since you can have conflicts that need to be resolved. Need to figure out UX for it. Downside with high consistency is that you always need a computer to be online to coordinate whichmeans stuff won't work without interent.
- Kevin: Google Docs only really works online, Dropbox has duplicate files when there are conflicts. Still figuring out on Ara's side.
- Mauve: would be nice to have people from ARA and/or Wireline/GEUT in the working group meetings. It would be interesting to hear more about how others are using multiple hypercores and other use cases.

### Edward Silverton's thing

- Working in a coworking space sponsored by "Digital Catapult" to work on getting businesses to work with 5G.
- Edward volunteered with an ideas whith a tool for the coworking space so that users in the coworking space can used Dat to backup files via a Slack bot which will pin a Dat with a "5G server"
- Got it working, was a bit stuck, wanted to have an HTTP gateway to load the files. Saw Paul's work on it. Sussex university was interested in Dat projects for their students.
- Problem with Dat gateways is that nobody wants to run one since it costs too much and people can share content you don't want to share.
- Need for an enterprise version where only people in your network can share to it
- "It works!"
- https://gitlab.com/mnemoscene/fusebot
- Can used via slack
- Wanted to make it more accessible
- Wanted to see a tool that's as easy as dratting and dropping files to generate FFF manifests.
    - https://github.com/UniversalViewer/uv.pub
    - An electron app, you can drop stuff in and use Universal Viewer to see it
    - Wanted to prove that cultural heritage content can be preserved without large servers. This shows that anyone can do it and anyone can store it / have multiple content
    - Can create your own books / videos / 3d objects and share them
- Check out: https://twitter.com/hacksussex

- Pfrazee: The premise of having some amount of trust with people in the Gateway is related to the Unwalled Garden social graph. You can use it to auto-seed stuff from people that you follow.

- Ed: Slack bot is useful for projects generating massive amounts of data so that it can be backed up properly and how to maintain multiple copies. Github is unsuitable, it works for code, but something like a Unity project is a large blog. They'd want to use it but they don't have the right tools.
- Kevin: yeah, I think this is a good usecase for Dat. In the old days you had to get P2P to have the availability. P2P is the the way to go now. Went to mutech (sp) and they were deoming stuff where the smallest thing was like a terrabyte
- Ed: Adobe after effects are massive
- Pfrazee: Dat 2.0 is going to be good at dealing with large files because we'll have random writes within large files so that you can change a few bytes without rewriting the entire file to the archive

- Rangermauve: Maybe re-storing large files instead of Diffs is okay. That's why git is better than mercurial
- Paul: Git doesn't handle large files. The approach of hyperdrive will be different since it's not diffs, it's INodes from the FS so that it can quickly seek to the proper data rather than going through the entire history. This will probably controlled by the user API
- Mattias and Andrew are planning on making the FUSE stuff work for general filesystem use. Multiwriter makes this all way more complex.

### Martin integrating MMST into discovery swarm webrtc

- Been working on integrating MMST into discovery swarm to reduce webrtc connections, it's working well, still working through some issues. It's interesting how the algorithm works, results in a max of 4 connections per peer. Simulating using a graph to visualize it.
- https://github.com/RangerMauve/mostly-minimal-spanning-tree
- https://github.com/geut/discovery-swarm-webrtc/tree/tinchoz49/add-mmst
- Using real WebRTC connections in the simulation, but running on the same client
- Able to add connections. Has 4 connections max per peer
- Dealing with issues when losing peers, sometimes it needs time to figure out where to connect to.
- Managed to get a breaking case where two peers were unable to connect to each other. Seeing it in hyperswarm too.
- Having issues with connections in WebRTC, don't want to create a swarm where everyone is connected to everyone. Want to minimize connections while each peer can replicate the feeds still.
- First time it had trouble connection - that's the power of demos
- Trying to connect the Dat world with Browsers in Wireline. It's very important because there's a bigger space since there are more users in the browser.
