# Dat comm-comm meeting notes

21 Nov 2019

## People
- Diego (@dpaez, GEUT)
- Eric Rangell
- Nick Baroni
- Bret Comnes (LittlStar: https://github.com/little-core-labs)
- Joseph (@jwerle, LittlStar)
- khubo
- Martin Acosta (@tinchoz49, GEUT)
- noffle
- serapath
- Nina
- substack

## Agenda

No previous items.

## Meeting

- Introduction
    - Bret Comnes <bcomnes@gmail.com> (https://bret.io)
    - Frando
    - Eric
    - Joseph
    - khubo
    - Martin
    - Mauve
    - Nick Baroni
    - noffle
    - Nina (@ninabreznik)

## Questions about basic dat use cases
- Nick has some dat use cases, one was related to use dat-store to backup some files (publish and seed)
-

## Mentorship Program
- Its possible to arrange mentorships, where the mentor can be compensated for their time. Maybe the dat foundation can help with this. Can be an hourly-based thing?
- best practices
- Mauve could bring the idea to the dat consortium
- [noffle] re mentoring: I don't have much space for 1on1, but I want to create more useful p2p resources. sometimes it's just not being sure what material people want/need
- https://wtfsharp.net/wtf-is-fs-mentorship-program
- https://hackmd.io/-hJeNqjkS4WlMJ0P5PRw-A
- Eric comments on the idea of the podcast mentioned earlier, where there are some moderators and more organization between mentors and mentees

## communication channels

- IRC
- dat forum

## Dat re-design
- Mauve is continuing with the work that gina did around design and mapping all the projects on the dat-ecosystem.
- [project-updates repo](https://github.com/datproject/project-updates) is a good step on that direction, consolidating projects news in one place.
- website TO-DO List: https://github.com/datproject/dat-foundation-website/pull/123
- Tod Robbins and Mauve are collaborating on these with the help/guidance of Joe Hand.
- Collaboration is welcome!

## Question from the chat
- Has anyone been able to build and run the Beaker Hypercore-10 branch?

## SDK dat2 branch
- development is paused.
- lots of breaking changes
- almost no docs yet :(
- Maybe ping Andrew on IRC

## Projects Wishlist
- https://github.com/dat-land/comm-comm/issues/110#issuecomment-556369063
- Maybe we can use the project-updates repo to add these wishlists and from there we can find common needs.

