# dat protocol Community communication

19 Dec 2019

## People

* [Diego](https://github.com/dpaez)
* [Mauve](https://github.com/rangermauve)
* [Kevin Faaborg](https://github.com/zootella)
* [Sam](https://github.com/sammacbeth)
* [Eric Rangell](https://github.com/erangell)
* [Sam Macbeth](https://github.com/sam)
* [Ed Silverton](https://github.com/edsilv)
* [substack](https://github.com/substack)
* [Martin Acosta](https://github.com/tinchoz49)
* [Joseph Werle](https://github.com/jwerle)
* [Vanesa Pyne](https://github.com/vipyne)
* [Bret Comnes](https://bret.io)

## Meeting

### Intro

- Diego: Lots of comm comms this year. All this started with Martin, living in Japane. Had meetings in different timezones initially.
- Eric: Recently started sessions with mauve. Learning more about the SDK and command line. Working on kubernetes on a Raspberry Pi
- Mauve: Was working on dat webiste, working on hyperswarm-proxy
- Ed: Working from GLAM. Working on universal viewer and using Dat. Trying to combine protocols from interop in GLAM sector with P2P tech. Also interested in 3D and WebXR
- Sam: Doing Dat in the browser with Cliqz. Trying to get what Beaker has but in Firefox browsers: [link](https://github.com/cliqz-oss/dat-webext)
- Martin: Work at Geut in Argentina. Working with Dat tech for last year. Made Disocvery-swarm-webrtc.
- Kevin: Work at Ara, set of distirubuted tools for fans and creators to deliver content using Dat and using Etherium for selling stuff
- Substack: Been doing Peermaps, helping other projects like Cabal. Lately working on getting sparse workflows to work. [Link](https://github.com/peermaps/kappa-flow/blob/main/example/kv/view-query.js) [Other link](https://github.com/peermaps/unordered-materialized-kv-pubsub)
- Joseph: Working at little core labs, little star. Main use of Dat is to deliver large videos and assets for experiences
- Vanessa: Can't speak but in the chat. Working on Ara with Jevin and Joe and some other people.

## Peermaps

- substack: Working on peermaps and cabal. There's overlap between the two. Lately working on different workflows for sparse data over kappa-core. Franz has been working on that with the Kappa5 branch. Making architecture design docs and working on them. Sparse key-value store: When you join the swarm you don't load antything at first. You ask your peers for queries for keys. Peers will respond with feed keys and ranges. Can do that with cabal but instead of key sequences it's time intervals. This approach gets around needing full replication on start while having the same materialized view architecture in Kappa core. It's a lot trickier to think of things in a sparse way. The key-value example is a module living inside another repo. Going to be using the same techinique for geospacial queries. Connect to peers, then ask them about records in a bounding box. Process of building that geospacial DB will need normalization, the key-value component will be helpful for that. https://github.com/peermaps/hypercore-query-extension
- Diego: Sparse mode sounds tricky, it'd be nice to have a writeup to read more. More techniques and patterns will arise using this.
- Mauve: Have you thought about hypertrie?
- substack: Yes, it does support sparse mode, the complication is that you have to have a single writer and need to build a layer if you want a big DB with many actors. You have to synthesize in a clean way. You could build the query on top of hypertrie, but wanted to focus on building on top of kappa-core, going to want to put this in Cabal as well.

## Dat 2

- Diego: Been playing a lot with hyperdrive 10. Last week there was a big update which has the lastest hypercore-protocol and corestore version. It was a breaking release so I'm doing updates on a new module called hyperdrive-promise. Plan to use these with the [sdk-js from the p2p-commons](https://github.com/p2pcommons/sdk-js). Pretty fun, reading a lot of code.
- Sam: Wanted to bring up something I've been battling that's Dat 2 related. At the moment doing a connectivity test of Dat, how many users in browsers could actually connect to browsers? Starting with the Dat 1 version. When shipping, hoping to have private defaults. Should announcing and uploading be disabled by default and use an opt-in? In the Dat1 stack this upload option doesn't work anymore. Talked to Mafintosh to have it in Dat 2. Hypercore had options. Going to be difficult to backport, but will be in Dat 2.
- Mauve: addressing a question/comment from Eric "Interested in how sparse replication in Dat2 can be used for sharing segments of videos, ex: songs practiced at a band rehearsal" It was already sparsely loading data in Dat 1, but it'll be sparsely loading metadata in Dat 1. Also FUSE will make it nicer.
- Sam: In discourse we talkeda bout how to delete old data and have changes to just bits of files instead of everything.
- Mauve: i think it's still on the roadmap, but some of the foundation is in.

## Mentorship

- Eric: Mauve and I had a session, in preparation I set up a team in Keybase, it's E2E encrypted and has channels. Set up channels for mentors, mentees, and cryptocurrency. Keybase also gives git repo for sharing data. The session was talking about ideas about what we want to do and refined it going forward. Not sure how people feel about keyboase, maybe we'll have a Dat version in the future. It's great for getting stuff organized. Might open it up if people want to use it. Posted recording of the session on Youtube. Shared docs on how it was done. Up to participants for how to share it. Just brainstorming and seeing how sessions go. This'll be a resource for formalizing mentorship stuff in the future.
- Diego: This sounds nice. THis could help shape how things could be regarding sharing resources. E.g. Using stellar tokens is a good use for them.
- Eric: It's new for me. Figured out how to deposit into Coinbase and then into stellar and try not to loose value. There's a specific amount that'll get the least fees. Then saved in DIE and a bit in Tezos and EOS. Don't want to keep it in Stellar because it fluctuates a lot. Going to keep in more stable currencies and transfer to Stellar.
- Diego: How did it go?
- Mauve: went well, mostly talked about how stuff works and spitballed ideas. Useful to record stuff
- Eric: Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wB1b1MOGaNw


## Seeding using slack bots

- Ed: In a coworking space in Brighton. Preserving files with Dat and a chatbot on Slack. Drag files into an electron app, talk to a bot to speed it. The files are available over an HTTP gateway. Instead of being global it's only your stuff. Made it as part of the program running in the space. Talked to a hosting company to get it running permenantly. Haven't done anything with it for a couple apps. Wanted to mention it, it could be a cool thing to set up and show how Dat can be used in a coworking space for file sharing. Chatbots are an acsessible way for peopl to use these technologies. Also like to make a Discord bot. Thought it'd be worth mentioning for the group.
- Diego: Seeing a discord bot would be really nice too.
- Mauve: How was the connectivity to the bot?
- Ed: It was pretty straightforward. The network isn't very locked down. Called Digital Catapault. Trying to stimulate business in the UK. Part of the 5G program. The guy from Digital Catapault set up the server. The basement has a coop that runs the servers there, had a 5G server set up that had a VM running Ubuntu. Was given access to that. Was pretty straightforward, just had to open the right ports. Already did the work with the electron app. Once the app created your Dat and gave the ID, it was a couple evenings work to do the slack bot. It listens to a particular channel and looks for Dat IDs and pins them. Amazed that it actually works. Now got a proper server that people can actually use in the Coworking space. If you've got small businesses that want to share files, and they want them backed up on a coop server rack, this could be useful for others. Will find links
- Diego: Will hyperswarm help with holepunching for this? Haven't done much stress testing. If you have access to people running servers and can open ports, the rest of the setup will probably be easy.
- Ed: You can probably just get an image with all the right ports opened and set up. The biggest thing was that the HTTP gateway worked and you can just share the files over regular HTTP and it's only your files and not everybody on the network. A friend at protocol labs that maintains the gateway has difficulties to deal with people's files. If organizations can set up their own gateways, and it's only their stuff, but it's still dat, they can do all the cool stuff for backing it up elsewhere and all the copies of it, but can share over regular HTTP. We're creating these projects with lots of assets and need to store them somewhere. GitHub and GitLab isn't good for that. The server setup makes it easier sicne we're paying access for it anyway. It's somewhere to store our files and it's versioned. I just want to back up a lot of stuff and have it versioned so I can replicate it.

https://github.com/UniversalViewer/uv.pub (electron app for creating dats)
https://gitlab.com/mnemoscene/fusebot (slack bot for pinning dats and sharing over http)

## Kubernetes

- Eric: Kuberneties using small images. Gina had a Dat night where people connected to a RasPI and shared files over Dat. Now you can run kubernetes on a Pi with K3S. Pi 4 is a powerful machine. You can have a single node cluster or 2 or 3 communicating. You can separate your containers forom load balancing. It's good for microservice architecture. Useful for hackathon or school or internal hacking space. It's good so you can share with each other or use Ingress and set that up to configure it. Your configuration can be code on Github, how your cluster is set up and how the containers can be set up. It's great for a developer to set up their own cluster for testing. My goal is to have a homebase with a HA k3s cluster, load testing of Dat applications, continues deployments. Each Raspi is a node in the cluster and applications are deployed as pods, microservices for an application. Easy to connect things for monitoring and statistics. it'd be powerful for Dat to look at this and come up with a model for how you can have mesh networks of K3s clusters on Arm hardware and see where it can go. If you had a standard way of updating, if the apps are self contained you can upgradee the hardware without worrying about it.
- Mauve: question, cloud and microservices are opossite of what you see in P2P software
- Eric: I see it as being useful for test environments. I see Dat as a transport layer for applications. For testing applications you can throw load at it by simulating different versions. You can test your networks
- Muave: So is it mostly for testing?
- Eric: I see it as a way from isolating applications from the hardware. A layer of indirection to solve deployment issues. Still pretty new and learning it but wanted to share the idea.
- Bret: Had some ideas, obviously local-first software, but a lot of enterprise tools are pretty heavy on configuration and a lot of it has to do with network discovery and transport. I've brainstored before about using service logs using Dat and using a hosted environment that uses p2p infrastructure to replicate a lot of data. Also think that there's a project by bitfinex where they have a microservice framework using hyperswarm and pieces of Dat. It's a transport layer and there's applications all over the place.
- Eric: Experience comes from large companies and bridging the gap.
- Bret: There's so much manual configuration and it'd be good to see how p2p can help there.
- Mauve: I think Hyperdivisoin were doing soemthing
- Bret: Still doing local-first not orchistration
- Eric: Main idea is config as code and automating deployments.
- Diego: Thanks for sharing your experience and your ideas. Also what Bret mentioned about replicating logs is super interesting. A lot to think about.
- https://github.com/bitfinexcom/grenache-grape
- https://github.com/bitfinexcom/bfx-svc-js
- https://twitter.com/paoloardoino/status/1205152631980797953
- Recommended videos about Kubernetes on Raspberry Pi:
Kubernetes Ingress: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VicH6KojwCI
K3s - Kubernetes on ARM devices: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_lNnrrp-8zQ


## Conclusion

- Diego: Had a fun year, got to meet a lot of people around the globe. Wanted to say thanks. This is a really good opportunity to learn a lot of thigns first hand. Lots of new topics and links that you share, it's very cool. Wanted to say thanks.
- Diego: Would like feedback and ideas regarding the comm comm meetings. E.g. Ideas for how we can make more use of this hour. My idea for the meeting is to have a fun hour that's a little bit chill, no stress, sometimes have an agenda, this is also a community time and if you'd like to propose a topic this is a good place for doing that. If you have any ideas or comments that we can use to improve this space, it'd be very nice to hear.
- Ed: Where does everyone hang out in the Dat community? Is it IRC? I'm on slack and discord all the time.
- Substack: IRC, Cabal
- Diego: IRC, Gitter
- Sam: Dat forum https://dat.discourse.group/
- Mauve: Project-updates has info about different https://github.com/datproject/project-updates
- Diego: First comm comm was on Dec 20, 2018. It's been a full year. Thanks and see you next year.
