# dat protocol Community communication

30 Jan 2020

## People

* Diego (@dpaez)
* Jake Burden (@jekrb)
* Sam Macbeth (@sammacbeth)
* Eric Rangell ([github.com/erangell](https://github.com/erangell))
* RangerMauve (@rangermauve)
* Micah (@micahscopes)
* karroffel (@karroffel)
* Kevin Faaborg (@zootella)
* Frando (@frando)

## Agenda

* It'd be cool to talk about the Rust implementation more
* hyperdrive-daemon & Dat2
* Update on Beaker - going into Beta?

## Meeting Notes

### Introductions

- Eric: Been following dat for a few years, interested in updates. Researching how Ted Nelson's research (Zig-Zag structures, tumbler arithmetic) could be applied to Dat.
- Jake: Frontend engineer at gitlab. Been following dat for a long time. Hosted MDN on Dat on a Raspberry PI. See updates with Datrs which excited me. Trying to learn Rust. Want to see the state of Dat, see if I can do some learning.
- Sammacbeth: Based in Munich, adding dat support in the browser in a firefox fork. Made a patch which lands it in the next release behind settings. Supports dat the same way beaker does. Going to be at FOSDEM next week, will be livestreamed. Looked at how to get Dat2 to work in the browser. Need to update crypto for Dat. Hacking on bookmark synch browser extension based on kappa-core which will work in any browser using discovery-swarm-webrtc.
- Mauve: has been working on Dat project, release dat sdk 1.0 last week!. Dat contract is ending soon, looking for new oportunities using Dat. Interest on VR/AR.
- Micah: Work at a non-profit called Learning Equality, making an offline-first education tool. Lately been interestedin Kappa-core and the new version that's coming out soon. Thinking about how to blend kappa-core libraries with hypercore/hypertrie and how it all works.
- Karroffel:  study biology and I basically just found out about DAT. I am also curious about datrs and might want to contribute with my little free time. Also I am interested in the state of multi-writer support
- Kevin: Part of the ara project: ara.one. Got a desktop app which is one half electron, one half dat, and one half electron. Working on the electron side.

### Rust implementation

- Diego: It'd be nice to have updates on the Datrs thing.
- Frando: I can tell a few things. This was a weekend side-project that I started to look into, the Rust thing. Don't expect any code and progress on my side. :) The current state of dat-rust is: yosh started about a year and a half ago, funded to work on it for hal a year. Started on the on-disk and in-memory implementation of hypercore. The current hypercore module lets you create new hypercores and it's in-memory for now but the verification is all there. This code has been around for about a year with not much happening. Can't do much yet, can't serialize the cores on disk yet, can't open new cores. Most of the things for the representation is there. Recently, two months ago, I was looking into Rust things again for the Sonar project. We needed RPC between rust and node and that got me looking at the next step for getting hypercore protocol stream. Implemented the simple-message-channels protocol. It's a simple binary protocol which doesn't have any actual data, just a type and data prefix. [bltvares](https://twitter.com/bltavares/status/1221587189668163584) from Brazil has been working on the MDNS disocvery on the local network. Started looking in the actual protocol in rust. made a github repo to experiment. Started parsing messages. bltvares work is focused on Dat1, managed to parse messages from a hypercore protocol stream, compiled it to android. Same time I continues porting to the current stack. Ran into issues with the noise protocol. The current protocol uses the noise framework for encrypted communication. Submitted PR to optionally disable noise, managed to parse the messages in rust. Continued to look at implementing the final handshake. Some parts missing because hypercore uses it in a peculiar way. If anyone has questions or wants to join the effort you're more than welcome.
- Diego: Excellent update, good to hear. Anyone have questions?
- Jake: I've got limited experience with rust but I'd like to join a project. Would looking for low hanging fruit in the dat ecosystem be good for a rust beginner?
- Frando: I'd say try it. I'm a rust beginner too and I've just started 9 months ago and started learning too. Just looked at async stuff a couple of months ago. Maybe look at my repo or bltvares or older stuff from Yosh. We want to connect it all eventually. If you look at my repo, it's not much code. Like 200-300 lines of Rust. Quite easy to follow if you have a basic understanding of rust. Not sure about low hanging fruit because we're at the experimentation stage stil. Just trying to parse messages and make simple CLI examples. There's quite a few people in the datrs channel on freenode. You can ask questions in there too, also about working with Rust.
Repos:
    - https://github.com/Frando/hypercore-protocol-rust-experiments
    - https://github.com/datrs/simple-message-channels
    - https://github.com/Frando/rust-node-noise-handshake 
- Rangermauve: Check out the rust koans: https://github.com/crazymykl/rust-koans/
- Eric: What about the Dat SDK in Rust?
- Frando: To have the SDK in rust there's a lot of stuff missing. The SDK needs full hypercores and hyperdrives which is quite a long way away. To have actual hyperdrive in full rust, if it's in a _hobbiest way_ it could take a year or more. It could change if people did it outside of their spare time. In Dat2, the hyperdrive-daemon speaks protocol buffers, gRPC, with clients. The CLI will talk to the daemon over gRPC which will be easy to implement in Rust. An interesting place to start would be with a client in Rust. The idea of the SDK is that you can work with the same API in different environments, in the browser and node, a possible third distinction would be either with actual hyperdrives, or with hyperdrive-daemon-client where the calls are proxied over the gRPC stream. If the idea is that the same API could work in these scenarios, we can look into what the API would look like in rust now using the gRPC side.
- Eric: How hard would it be to use custom storage?
- Frando: the random-access-storage abstraction is pretty easy to implement. Just swapping that out wouldn't gain you much compared to files, the interesting thing would be to just implement hypercore in rust. It's not too far out but needs quite some work.
- Micah: I was digging into hypertrie a lot in the last couple of weeks and the data structures in the JS implementations. I was looking how in rust and JS there's a lot of existing data structures, I was wondering if it'd be possible to use exising libraries instead of implementing from scratch. Would it be possible to use other libraries for rust versions?
- Frando: it'd require a case by case look at what exists in the ecosystem
- Micah: It sounded like you're imagining an approach to implementing datrs that's top down from the protocol, from the messages and putting together the pieces that are needed?
- Frando: I think so, there could be other approaches, I don't have a roadmap, it's just a side project. It made sense to start at the protocol. If you start low there are quick gains. We were talking about setting u p a weekend project to try to do music streaming over hypercore-protocol. Not a fully working thing, but some small wins with rust. Starting from the wire protocol, and getting that to a working state, and then combining sounds like a solid roadmap.
- Sam: Also interested in the bottom-up approach. Tackles the places where Dat is struggling where running node and native modules is hard. The new version of hypercore can't run until there's a new sodium-native, and on iOS we can't run any part of the stack. Rust is an avenue where we can solve this by compiling on iOS, easier than getting the node stack working there.
- Frand: I agree. If we manage to get rust implemented, we can look into using WASM and we don't need to worry about this noise in the browser stuff. The transport encryption in hypercore-protocol is a bit different from standard noise, ran into some issues where normal rust noise crates do things a bit differently which are behind private variables. Looking to compile that into wasm and taking over from javascript hypercore would be great. The crypto, there's a lot of native rust libraries that are a lot easier to compile to WASM, you wouldn't need the JS impls anymore, just use WASM which will be a lot faster.
- sam: Suppose we got a replacement for sodium-native with WASM bindings, it'd be easier to use Rust with WASM
- Frando: yeah, it's easier, haven't got crypto running with WASM yet.
- Mauve: getting a grant for improving rust dat support would be great. Karissa has an interest on this, looking for a grant.
- Frando: If there's lots of projects that use Dat, maybe we could put our weight together to find funding if we all want to use rust. Not sure where the funding could come from.
- Sam: If the current dat support in our desktop browser kicks off and gets interest. Framing it as getting iOS support is something we can put resources on.
- Frando: That's something other projects said too, if they want it running everywhere Rust would be a good choice.
- Eric: if you can combine AR/VR with Rust there could be something there. Is Functional Programming possible with Rust?
- Frando: There's some elements. You can do pattern matching, you can pass functions by reference. Dealing with passing functions can be hard because it's strongly typed.
- Eric: Could you talk about the safety that it gives you?
- Frando: The short version is that it's LLVM backend, there's an "ownership model" which disallows pointer math and stuff, you're safe from buffer overflows, use after free, multithreading. The compiler puts lots of constraints that can be hard at first but make it better. There's the "unsafe" hatch which frees you from these constraints if you need it. Can do stuff you'd do in C where you might have undefined behavior. The rust STD does that for optimizations, some structures are hard in Rust, double-linked lists can be hard. Drivers and stuff. Something like hypercore-protocol you don't need unsafe code. Maybe you'd have an optimization somewhere, but you can do it in fully safe rust. The compiler has guarantees where if your program compiles it's likely doing what you expected. This makes it Rust a lot more approachable. Dealing with raw pointers in C didn't sound interesting. In Rust you learn the language, then things basically work and you're not shooting yourself in the foot. You're only fighting with the compiler - you can "beat it". Also the Rust community is really nice. There's a lot of cool people and a focus on being inclusive and being approachable to people. It's a good fit also in that aspect.

### Hyperdrive-daemon and Dat2

- Diego: There was a question on [twitter about this](https://twitter.com/bertmb/status/1222881708464386055). If anyone has questions / share stuff about the new ecosystem of modules, now would be a good time.
- Micah: A couple of weeks ago, I took a look at mountable-hypertrie, I didn't know it existed but it looks fundamental for the dat2 hyperdrive. It's a corestore that has your hypertrie and your peers hypertries and has a wrapper around it so that you can mount different parts of other people's hypertries locally in your hypertrie. My hunch is that is how mounts are implemented. Haven't looked into hyperdrive10. It was interesting to see how it was put together, how it used corestore. The space to doing indexing and all that, wrapping it in the ordinary hypertrie interface was exciting. It was fun to checkout that library.
- Sam: I've been playing with Dat2. Haven't got sodium-native for the browser, made an implementation in node that works. dat-fox has a background process in Node, switching in the dat2 API lets you load a dat archive in the browser. Don't have any sites to test but it works. Also, the next problem is to figure out backwards compatibility. I'd want to pull in an address and if it's available as a hyperdrive 10 it should use that, else use the old one. I have an idea of doing this, basically set off both and see which one gets a usable hyperdrive first. Paul will likely need to do that too.
- Diego: There was a module that added a hyperdrive version field, this is mostly valid for hyperdrive 10 and the latest hyperdrives, not for 9. Maybe if one needs to distinguish they could use this. Check out: https://github.com/andrewosh/hyperdrive-schemas
- Mauve: backwards compatibility is an open problem, any solution is welcome. We can collaborate as a community looking for a solution. Related experiment: https://github.com/RangerMauve/hyperdrive-backwards
Beaker is pretty attached to hyperdrive-daemon so an update with backward compat there will be difficult.
- Sam: Yeah, changing the URL could be hard. Doing this race between two instances can be good if you have an async API for getting the archive. At least for dat-fox it should be easy to implement. For dat-webext, this will take a bit longer because we can't run dat2 yet
- Micah: Has anyone got Paul's new beaker version compiling?
- Sam: Reminds me of another issue with sodium-native. When you try to package this thing, I use pkg for dat-fox bundle up the whole program without node, because of the sodium-native issues, you need to include all the .node files for every distributions. Not sure if it's related to how electron uses native dependencies.
- Micah: I try to build, it doesn't run yet because there's a problem with the logging. I'm not sure what isn't working. I should file a bug report.
