# dat protocol Community communication

13 Feb 2020

## People

* Diego (@dpaez)
* Mauve
* datBeginner.in.IRC
* Kevin Faaborg

## Agenda
- Dat First steps: Is there a good starting point? (https://github.com/dat-land/comm-comm/issues/122#issuecomment-584438720)


## Meeting Notes

### Intro

- Diego: Welcome. There's an agenda from the meeting issue. Someone asked about the first steps for using Dat. We can cover that or get proposals for more things. I'm Diego, I work for Geut and I help host these meetings.
- People introduction.
- Mauve is starting a new project related to media creation and indigenous communities in Canada.
    - Also digging about the relation between CS&S and Dat. They can help with Dat event.
    - Dat2 pre-release! (doesn't work in browsers yet, but everything is OK). Being used in datdot project.
- Pfrazee: Working on Beaker, trying to get to closed beta, hopefully this month. Working on the past few weeks has been tooling for "groups" - hyperdrives with a `users` directory that has mounts. Sort of a traditional approach to applications with users. They produce content on their drives and the app will put their data together. Initial app is like a reddit clone. We're going to look at how to generalize this into a pattern that can be used for all kinds of software.
- Kevin: Working on Ara.one, working on the electron side. Inside is Dat and Etherium, connects creators and fans, creators can sell episodes without worrying about how much the platform is gonna charge or what the platform will be comfortable with. It's an ERC20 based token called Ara, going on the first exchange - Liquid Assets Token in two weeks, we have a countdown clock.

### First steps using Dat

- Diego: Is there a good starting point?
    - dat docs
- Mauve: I'd hope the docs are enough, we have a getting started page
- Diego: I'd hope that you could share the docs and it'd be enough. It'd be nice if we had code snippets to share too.
- Kevin: I think the docs are important, I think the most important parts are code snippets for completing basic tasks with Dat. I remember socket.io - right at the beginning it'd have 15 lines of JS to get pages talking to each other. Similar for Dat it'd be good to have small working example projects.
- Diego: Strongly agree, those kinds of things would make it super helpful. I guess we're going that direction with the Dat SDK, the Dat 2 version will make it super easy. We might need to wait a little bit for the browser support
- Mauve: dat 2 branch, API remains similar to original. Also having a list of examples we should add could help a lot.
- Diego: Yeah, I agree with Kevin. Having examples would help. It would leave a good impression when you're new to Dat. Maybe we can start on IRC and start collecting samples. That could be a cool action item for the community
- datBeginner: :raised_hands: I'm attempting to get going; I have found a codepen [hardware limited code viewing] and other web-polyfill example, but I haven't been able to untangle the multiple underlying components. IRC feels like I might be invisible.

- Diego: I'm working on a clone feature that's similar to the CLI. Maybe I can help the CLI project once that update starts.
- Mauve: find someone who can help with an adminisrative role, like a link with CS&S. This can help get funding, or using OC and help funding people.

- datBeginner: I am looking at making a politicalCampaign page. I would like the build to be in line with things I support. This could enhance visibility of the project. Today I am investigating use of (tor-polyfill?)[https://github.com/Ayms/node-Tor/blob/master/README.md] I have been looking into selective RBAC based on "monadical categories"

^-- Might be better to ask in IRC since there's more folks on there. Or on the forums! https://dat.discourse.group/
- datBeginner: :+1: did I miss that discourse.group on the .md?
- The discourse stuff is on the website. dat.foundation
  - datBeginner: is it reasonable to think a forum/chat could be made w/ dat.js(polyfill[?])

- Kevin: working on electron. step away from the dat side. goal: give them tools to improve the UI. Like developer tools. Can be used to debug dat-related things. Project, check it out: github.com/zootella/tortuga
- Mauve: question to ARA team. Where they are running dat (electron process)
    - Kevin: they are running on the main process. The rest of the UI are on different process. Different windows. Improvements are on the way (reducing number of windows.)
    - Mauve: considering on doing the same (dat on the main process) + adding some RPC API.
    - Kevin: you can have dat running on a server, outside main?. But there are some things that have to be on the main process. No limitations on where to run it.
- Mauve: new projects.
    - DatDot, share files with dat (like a sharing service). Working on a new module that will enable secure communication btw hyperswarm users. Users can connect to each other without need to know the IP.
      - datBeginner: like: https://send.firefox.com ? Would the files have save/destroy options?
    - The other project is about managing files and having like a multiwriter API using hyperdrives. Similar to a multi-hyperdrive. You end up dealing with "one" hyperdrive that is backed by many.
      - datBeginner: multiWriter is of interest; with selective write to a shared. Where each user stores their own data & pieces of this are written and referenced to a shared drive.
