# dat protocol Community communication

12 Mar 2020

## People

* Diego (@dpaez)
* Martin Heidegger (@martinheidegger)
* Mauve
* Kevin Faaborg
* karl
* fejnartal
* karroffel
* Andrew
* David

## Meeting Notes

### people intro

- karl is interested in the motivation and interests of the team members.
- martin is working on react-native project and tries to get dat working on mobile. Working on [Consento](https://github.com/consento-org).
- andrew is long time dat follower finally in this call.
- fejnartal - following the project for a while and casual contributor
- karroffel - biology and rust dev. interested in datrs effort
- kevin faabor - [ara blocks](https://ara.one/) product owner. ara recently launched a public coin offer that allows purchase out of usa.
- ranger mauve - dat sdk - working on datdot a dat hosting project and **natakanu** to discover archives on local network and collaborate on them.

### comm-comm updates by Martin

- we can make more use of the [dat comm-comm repo](https://github.com/datproject/comm-comm/), there is also a site!
- we can feature announcements here, you just need to create an issue there (eg: https://github.com/datproject/comm-comm/issues/130).

### dat-ssg

- publish to dat/netlify from a website.
- dat-ssg does a wget - fixes things - and then publish it to those platforms.
- similar to dat publish from sammacbeth - but works for dynamic sites.
- live demo and explanation from martin

### interest on Dat from a communication student

- using dat for all forms of communications
- advantage over other protocols
- p2p communications
- karl has an interest in audio/video streaming using Dat
    - Mauve add some projects: datcast
    - Also: https://github.com/louiscenter/hypercast
- argument _against_ general video/streaming from Martin
    - dat uses a merkel tree to work and can create copies from a signal (A/V). - always recording
    - also there can be a growth limit (size?)
    - mem allocations issues
    - copyrighted data
- ara.one alternative approach
    - copyright handling
    - eg: a podcaster using the platform can get payment/donations using ara
    - copyright is maintained by using closed p2p devices
- combining audio streamings using dat

### thoughts on dat:// with non-hyperdrive structures

- martin mentions it is already in use in non-hyperdrive structures (eg?)
- micah added; use case: building something with kappa, share replication and storage layers without requiring an hyperdrive. Using the low level layers (hypercore) directly between apps.
- How to identify other structures? read the first block?
- Mauve: hyperdrive has multiple feeds, the metadata describing the fs has multiple links, other feeds? Since it is attached to a FS abstraction that doesn't make it a general abstraction. eg: kappa doesnt care about FS.
- two (hypercore - hyperdrive) different (security) models for key sharing

