# dat protocol Community communication

26 Mar 2020

## People

* Diego (@dpaez)
* Martin (@martinheidegger)
* Jake (@jakeburden)
* Mauve (@rangermauve)
* Dan Hassan (@dan-mi-sun)
* Micah
* Jan (@falafeljan)
* Forrest (@forresto)
* Nina (@ninabreznik)
* Alex (@serapath)

## Meeting Notes

### intro

- Diego: Welcome. As always, this is community time. Feel free to share questions announcements or anything p2p related - this is your time. I'm Diego, I'm the host of this meeting. Lets do a quick introduction.
- Perguth:
- Dan hassan: Hey folks, Dan from [cobox](cobox.cloud) here. It is early in the morning and I speak quietly. Its my first comm-comm great to meet you.
- Forrest: In North Carolina USA, curious about what's going on. Thanks for opening this up.
- Jake: Frontend engineer at Gitlab. In Northeast of US. Love all things Dat. Here to listen and observe.
- Jan: hey I am jan from Germany, asked for meeting cobox, so thanks @dan to join us. I would like to know more about sonar instances and happy to talk about it.
- Kevin: Zootella on twitter, working on ara.one. Making a distributed toolset for creators and fans so that creators don't have to pay 30 percent to big platforms or be worried about platforms banning them
- Martin: Working on consento, often on these calls. Recently got into react native and Dat. Will talk about this to anyone that would listen
- Mauve: Working on dat-sdk, working on natakanu a file transfer app, working on datdot a network for keeping data online
- Micah: Working on educational software. Tried to use a JS delta CRDT library with kappa-db. Looking to structure it so it's a module that would be useful to other people. Would like tips on how to create modules with the community in mind and also their own needs

### Cobox: Project updates & Kappa views

- Jan: Curious about fuse mounting. Saw all the modules that cobox uses, especially materialized views for kappa, all on their gitlab page. If you could give a short summary of what it uses. Like the multiwriter architecture
- Dan: A good summary is that prior to building on dat in cobox we were building on Secure Scuttlebutt, borrowed a lot from that scene. Materialized view was built from Kieran and Domenic from Scuttlebutt. Came a bit later not sure how to answer questions.
- Jan: You're going through ledger program?
- Dan: Yes, consento. Same as Martin. Martin might be able to answer questions about the materialized view. Can answer questions about ledger if that's interesting to other folks. In short it's an EU alternative to silicon valley accelerator programs. Reason is EU is not happy with California model of surveillance and spying as a business but doesn't have strong alternatives. It's illegal in Europe to blockade and say you can't use something but they're building alternatives. String free 150k EU. No control given over as equity. They just had a second call which is closed now. Some other people applied too.
- Jan: Do you have a user interface, or is it focused on command line?
- Dan: We're about to do a release, we've got a user interface - I'll dump a demo video for what we've got as of now. At a high level it allows a group of people to swarm on a shared address over the Distributed Hash Table. Creates common encryption - people can swarm on the same key, but unless you have the encryption key you only see encrypted data. Idea is that software will be useful for platforms to provide backups as a service. Working with mutual aid people before grassroots orgs, heavily rooted in cooperative movement. First thing is to aid each other directly and keep each others data cooperatively, don't want to prevent services in the future. The UI enables people to share an address from the DHT, makes it easy to back up without having access to it, then people with access can use it. Right now you can access the filesystem, having a hell of a time with FUSE - it doesn't like Windows and with Mac there's some issues. Mostly just working with Linux.
- Jan: Wasn't sure how could have missed this project for so long. The quality of cobox is already this far. Referencing this [presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fU9hR3kiOK0)
- Dan: The medium-term goal is that we have super-nodes that run and govern the eco-system. And where forks happen if people are unhappy. You missed us because we put our heads down.
- Jan: {missed}
- Dan: We try to follow the unix philo. of doing one thing and that well. We are currently are talking with karissa to reuse cobox stuff to update the dat-cli. We are going through the stack and starting to rename the things to fit in the kappa universe. Are you working on
- Micah: I am looking at cabal-core, and how it adds some user moderation and "governance" kind of things on top of kappa-core, and I thought it could be cool if there were some nice reusable primitives for doing this kind of stuff in more general applications.
- Dan: I agree with that, we have been kind-of heads-down but people have been super-kind in saying that our stuff is useful. Like substack has been interacting with us on code. Karissa and Martin have also been very active.

#### cobox updates:
demo video: https://cobox.cloud/media/pages/how-it-works/3036308411-1584112590/cobox-demo_v1.0.0.mp4
mvp documentation: https://gitlab.com/coboxcoop/resources/-/tree/master/ledger-deliverables/4_MVP
public documentation: https://develop.cobox.cloud
stack: https://develop.cobox.cloud/modules.html

### Modules

- Micah: I am writing little tests combining js-delta-crdts and kappa-core and I am wondering of how turn this into a module that can interact with modules of other teams/people in the dat community. Thinking also from the perspective of new-comers and I would like to know what the approach is on that and I would like to know if there is a good workflow on that.
- perguth: May I be so free to just like this little something I did in the past: https://github.com/perguth/random-tree-names/blob/master/package.json I liked having multiple interfaces just in one file. In that case CLI and as module.
- Mauve: What I like to is think of a "dream API". Instead of a test-first approach, I just write a empty API and fill out things things well. So as I am writing things I break out modules. A readme is super important, starting with an installation script is really good. API docs is really handy. Some people would use doc generators, I am lazy by writing just texts.
- (dan hassan highly recommends noffle's: https://github.com/noffle/art-of-readme)
- We need to this thing, lets implement a module for that. Having a use-case is very important. Just being like "i have an idea" is a harder sell than I have something I want to make and it has reusable pieces.
- Martin: experience from consento, tested out things, this allow him to break it down into pieces. Good tip, ask here (irc, comm-comm, discourse).
- Diego: Any of mafintosh modules will always have these usage sections where he will try to give you a usage of it getting started really quickly.
- Micah: One thing I noticed when reading the code around Hypertrie, it looked like the same functionality could also be written around kappa-core. It would be nice to know if someone has boilerplate or tools that would be good to be used. The kappa-core workshop is very useful as it helps you get started even if you don't have long established node module creator habits.
- Nina: What I noticed is that when I am using other libraries. What I noticed is different vocabulary of things. Having different vocabulary of things is super confusing. Like the difference between discoveryKey and swarmKey.

- Nina: Switching the topic a little, we try to look into ways to support the community and Alex is looking for means to figure out what project we are connecting with there is a different vocabulary in the different projects.
- Diego:

### Dat and a swarm of embedded devices

- Kevin: Let's say we have two embedded devices. One might be a roku stick and a tv. With a c++ and only a little memory. How far do I have to go down to implement dat on low-powered devices.
- Mauve: If you want to run dat on low-powered environment environments you probably best fund the [datrs](https://datrs.yoshuawuyts.com/) effort.
- Mauve: Datcpp was put on hold for the time (and a lot of his work ). In terms of getting things up and running. I bring up with [ChakraCore](https://github.com/nodejs/node-chakracore) - I am not sure about the crypto stuff, it might work with sodium-js but it might be very slow.
- Kevin: Yes, I would need to see how much effort it would be to get rust working.
- mauve: go with the rust approach, rust and c go well with each other. rust >> c
- jan: Do you know the current state of the dat implementation?
- mauve: The last thing I saw was that they got some of the network protocol running. The basis of the new networking uses incompatible noise protocol and I saw someone being able to share the metadata feed of hypercore with the dat-node.
- kevin: I wanted to use the nodejs-mobile but it's a bit unmantained? But can be an option.
- Martin: one effort to sponsor is get sodium-native to work on chakra-core (sodium-javascript is working on nodejs-mobile).

### dat event update

- Martin: some progress, there is a team working on it. There is a issue open calling for help / sponsoring / cfps.
    - format: online, conference style
    - looking into the tools to use at the moment
    - presentations format research (workshops, just talks?, Q&A)
    - check it out: https://github.com/datproject/public-events/issues/8

### dat dot update

- serapath: shares https://github.com/playproject-io/datdot-research/issues/17#issuecomment-602563335 (WIP - [DEP-0007](https://www.datprotocol.com/deps/0007-hypercore-header/)?)
- serapath: We are working on this standard where we want to figure in a standard way how hypercore feeds are related. For any kind of hosting service it would be great to be able to have a dataprotocol agnostic way to figure out how things are working.
- serapath: If you have any feedback it would be wonderful.
- serapath: We want to offer an optional feed that could offer information on the meta-feeds.

### dat comm-comm is here!

- martin: feel free to use the dat comm-comm repo for any kind of [announcements](https://github.com/datproject/comm-comm/issues/new/choose). Good way to share thing with the community.
- Nina: it has been hard for us to join in this time-frame (after little sleep) so we will be joining next week.
- martin: These dat comm-comms are hosted by us freely, please know that you can easily start one at another time yourself if you feel like it or need to!
- serapath: https://github.com/datproject/comm-comm/issues/134

