# dat protocol Community communication

9 Apr 2020

## People

* Diego (@dpaez)
* Kevin Faaborg (@zootela)
* Mauve (@rangermauve)
* serapath
* Nina Breznik
* Ben (@benhylau)
* substack


## Meeting Notes

### Intro

diego: Welcome to the meeting, this is our time and space to share community updates and whatever you're up to. Also this is a place to share ideas for p2p stuff, not only using Dat. Also a good place to discuss ideas or ask questions. Usual thiing is to say hi and tell us a bit about yourself and what you're doing and your interests. I'm Diego, I work at Geut, we do p2p and dat stuff.
kevin: I work at ara.one. Using etherium and hypercomponents and the dat stack to make decentralized tools for creators and fans. e.g. creators or podcasters can distribute their content without worrying about apple changing rules
Mauve: working on ... and datdot. A file transfer tool for communities. Had some talks with sam macbeth on how to start using things like hyperdrive 10 and more. Also want to start working on a dat browser extension for brave. Also want to a apply to a mozilla grant.
Serapath: Name is Alex, working on datdot project. Hoping to get our first release. Still far away from it. It's p2p hosting of hypercore datastructures.
Nina: Also working on datdot. part of playproject.io, for the past three years we've been building user oriented infrastructure projects for p2p and blockchain, couple of years in Etherium ecosystem and more recently with Dat. Been following Dat for a while, but couldn't get paid projects until got a grant for datdot. Been our focus for last couple of months
Martin: From Argentina, work for Geut with Diego. Working on distributed applications on top of dat technologies
Ben: I'm benedict. From Toronto. Currently in Spain. Working for Hypha worker coop. Recent projects was organizing dweb camp and our networks. Conferences doing p2p. Organizer of Toronto Mesh. More familiar with IPFS, but want to get familiar with Dat and build stuff. Particularly IPV6 support for CJDNS and Yggdrasil. Made IPFS based live streaming for a conference. Hope to use Dat for that type of stuff. Putting dat on to a Raspberry PI and constrained environments
substack: Hello. Dunno what to say

## Martin working sodium-javascript-plus

Diego: Martin has been working on an experiment, this relates to Dat and Dat on the web. Maybe Martin can tell us more about this.
- [sodium-javascript-plus](https://github.com/geut/sodium-javascript-plus)

Martin: Hypercore 8 doesn't work in the browser right now. There are a few libsodium operations that aren't in the JS impl. Was following the issue for a few months, trying to learn about what we can do to fix it. One of the things was to port the methods to JS. [Emil Bay](https://github.com/emilbayes) said we could use WASM instead of JS. Started looking at how to compile libsodium to WASM and just get the operations we need, to minimize the binary and load it synchronously. Was playing with it. Completely experimental, not checking length of buffers, but at least it's working and we're playing with hypercore in the browser. The library takes the WASM libraries and links each WASM binary together. Extends original sodium-JS with the missing methods. Feedback and PRs are welcome.
Diego: Super cool, this is quite interesting to continue. Are there examples or something in the repo to try?
Martin: There is an [example on my personal github](https://github.com/tinchoz49/workaround-hypercore8-browser). This is important since the limitation belongs to NOISE, the protocol Dat is using. NOISE is using sodium-native. We need to remap noise-native to our module. Everything is in the example.
Mauve: how is the performance?
Martin: Took the original source from `libsodum-js`. Idea was to take a few parts and compile and link them. libsodium-js doesn't have good performance. 4x slower than native. Too slow, it's not really good. Not quite sure why we have the perf penalty. Minimized how to work with memory from WASM, minimize allocations and simplify everything. Using that I get 500 MS of improvement compared to `libsodium-js`. There's a benchmark in the library.
Mauve: have you try loading any hypercores?
Martin: Haven't tested in terms of performance, just built an example where data is writing an synchronizing
Mauve: funded by GEUT or wireline?
Martin: funded by GEUT. Doesn't seem to be a priority for Wireline. Had some time during the quarantine, wanted to learn WASM and learn through this issue.
Diego: Good to hear, if you wanna follow up on progress, check out the links. Any feedback or help is super welcome. Something like this can help the whole ecosystem for Dat in the browser.

## Exploring Dat and Media support

Diego: Benedict posted questions about Dat and media support in the github issue.
Ben: First question is, is there an HTTP gateway to expose dat content through?
Mauve: everything is in flux. the Dat CLI which is using a stable version of Dat has a flag (--http) which starts seeding and provides an http gateway. Quite simple approach. Directory listing can be a bit buggy.
Also there is dat-gateway project.
Ben: what do you mean by redirecting?
Mauve: handle routes inside a folder. There is a feature called ... When you load a website from beaker, you can mark a folder as a root. It also does some fancy stuff for markdown files and html files.
dat-gateway limitation is that absolute urls are broken.
There is a low hanging fruit for all of these. resolve-dat-path module. On top of the SDK we are building ...

Ben: current approach using ipfs. Uses http to fetch a metadata file. there is a player that doesn't know about anything else. Just plays stuff.

Ben: https://github.com/ournetworks/ournetworks.ca/blob/master/livestream/live-2019-09-20.m3u8

Mauve: how does ipfs streaming works?

Ben: the player will periodically get the file again. 40s chunks, this is how you keep content coming. the gateway keeps fetching the content and feeding the player.

Mauve: you can listen for changes using the hyperdrive archive approach.

Ben: the player has its own buffer logic so it decides when to fetch a new buffer chunk.
The manifest needs to be also fetched from the gateway.
Using Dat you can pass a "stable" link to the player, since Dat data mutates.

Mauve: using beaker this usecase can be done easily.

### IPV6, Dat and Mesh networks

Ben: is introducing this question:
> IPv6 support so @tomeshnet can use Dat with Cjdns/Yggdrasil which are IPv6-only networks

In summary, Dat has plans to IPV6 support?

Mauve: frando asked about this recently. Hyperdivision
team doesn't have the bandwidth right now.

Also, related to: https://github.com/hyperswarm/dht/issues/1

IPV6/peers and that's it! :tada:

### Dat and bootstraping

Mauve: Its a combination between MDNS and DHT. There are some servers running.

MDNS libs supports IPV6?

Mauve: How IPFS does local discovery?

Ben: No mdns support, manually with IPFS CLI.

Ben: curious why Dat mDNS worked with this :D https://github.com/tomeshnet/prototype-cjdns-pi/blob/master/scripts/mesh-adhoc/mesh-adhoc#L35

### Feed key discovery DEP

Diego: Serapath you mentioned you had a DEP in progress
Serapath: Haven't made much progress, got an issue to summarize everything. Had multiple proposals. One would use DEP 007 to get data from header (first message in feed) to get a feed key for a manifest feed, alternatively use multifeed's extension message where you can get all the related feeds. There was a priority, you try the first approach then the second so you avoid conflicts. Karissa mentioned that corestore has some sort of discovery key message, not sure how it relates. Interested if folks want to implement something, currently busy with something else. Would be good to get feedback on alternative methods.
Diego: Sounds good, feel free to share links

### New discovery-swarm-webrtc

Martin: Been working on a [new version of `discovery-swarm-webrtc`](https://github.com/geut/discovery-swarm-webrtc/tree/tinchoz49/next). Before it was using socket.io. Now using regular websockets, reduced amount of memory by 6 times. It was a really good optimization.

### Dat Events

Diego: Still in progress. The team is still thinking about format. Will have a [repo](https://github.com/datproject/public-events) soon where people can put proposals for a talk. If you
wanna give a talk we'll have an issue template where you can submit your presentation. It'll be quite open. Martin Heidegger is working on event side. There will be something soon. Frando is doing some research on tools for streaming the event. If you wanna help with any of these topics, there's an events repo where we're collaborating.
Feel free to reach out or reach out on IRC to anyone I mentioned. Hopefully we can give more updates some time soon.

### Conclusion

Diego: It was a fun hour. Remember we also have the discourse group. https://dat.discourse.group/ Feel free to reach out. :v:

