# dat protocol Community communication

16 Apr 2020 - [previous](https://github.com/datproject/comm-comm/blob/master/meeting-notes/48-09Apr2020.md)

## People

* [Martin](https://github.com/martinheidegger)
* [Sam Macbeth](https://github.com/sammacbeth)
* [Alexander Friedland](https://github.com/ogerly)
* [Krzysztof Jan Modras](https://github.com/chrmod) - _(briefly)_

## Meeting Notes

_(Note: This meeting became a bit unstructured, I restructured the documents to make sense for the reader)_ :sweat_smile: 

### Introduction of Comm-comm

This is a "Community Call" organized by dat community members.
We get to know each other and find out what people in the community would are working on, have problems with or would like to share.

Everyone can just start a meeting by [adding it to the repository](https://github.com/datproject/comm-comm/issues/new?assignees=&labels=meeting&template=meeting.md&title=YYYYMMDD+-+meeting)!

We are here to answer each others questions as they arise, thought it might be good to share them ahead of time in the issue for the
meeting.

We are also sharing the recent anouncement's happening in the dat community. You can add an anouncement [as issue](https://github.com/datproject/comm-comm/issues/new?assignees=&labels=announcement&template=announcement.md&title=) and we will share it here.

In recent announcements
- [datDot shared their proposal on standard related feeds](https://github.com/datproject/comm-comm/issues/134)


### First time Joining, Alex!

_Note: We switched to german for this conversation_

Alex: Hello I am Alex from dresden working at [human-connection](https://human-connection.org/en/), a open-source network. I try to work for a longer time with the DAT project and got a little time and bring the dat project to the german room in german. For a start, I made a fritter profile in german: [Dat Adler](https://datadler.hashbase.io/).

Martin: Hello I am Martin, I work as a freelancer with [Georepublic](https://georepublic.info), hosting these meetings every two weeks and we are working on [consento](https://consento.org) which tries to integrate Dat via react-native.

Sam: Hello I am sam, working in munich at [cliqz](https://cliqz.com/en/about) on the dat integration. I have also been active on the [dat firefox plugin](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/dat-p2p-protocol/).

Alex: I would like to bring dat to the german speaking community and am hoping to create videos, explaining several things around dat in videos.

Martin: We are looking forward to bring those topics to the comm-comm calls. You can also start anytime to hold meetings on your on in the comm-comm repo.

### Talking about dat on mobile

Sam: I saw your _(martin)_ article in the forum: [React Native@dat forum](https://dat.discourse.group/t/dat-and-react-native/184) and I forwarded it to our mobile guy as he is also interested to get dat to run with react native.

Martin: Awesome, thank you! Are you using react-native in cliqz?

Sam: Yes, the [cliqz-user-agent](https://github.com/cliqz/user-agent-ios) is using react-native.

Martin: Wait, what? Firefox is built with react-native?

Sam: No, but when we adopted Firefox mobile for cliqz we added react-native to make it easier for people to work with it.

Martin: Oh! alright, is that same for Android?

Sam: No, we are in the process of rewriting the Android version based on the [Gecko-view](https://mozilla.github.io/geckoview/) of Firefox. It allows us to use the dat-webext browser extension as-is.

Martin: And that works just as-is.

Sam: Yes, it works automatically, we can use the [libdweb](https://github.com/mozilla/libdweb) API by firefox and it works just as-is.

Martin: This seems to work very different from the react-native version, right?

Sam: Oh, yeah, there is this web-view that contains all of the gecko parts in the background such as a spidermonkey and the regular extension process and the dat-webext can just work in there. We just use browserify and add a shim for the libdweb API's for tcp/udp.

Martin: :sweat_smile: Honestly, this is a lot of magic for me, gotta read into it.

Sam: I did [hold a presentation](https://fosdem.org/2020/schedule/event/dip_dat_browser/) on fossdem last year.

Martin: This is all written in [kt](https://kotlinlang.org/), so, I assume there is no chance that this will run on iOS ever.

Sam: As iOS prevents the use of a own webview, it is impossible.

Martin: Yeah, but for react-nodejs-native they do use [the javascript engine of microsoft](https://github.com/JaneaSystems/nodejs-mobile#2-run-the-helper-script) and to my knowledge that does run on iOS right?

Sam: To my knowledge the rules of iOS prevent the use of compiling the code.

Martin: The chakra-core seems to be built in a way to work around?

Sam: There some weird rules on iOS, it might disable the JIT? Isn't that very slow?

Martin: Yes, except it is precompiled on publication... right? Should work ... shouldn't it??? I am not quite sure that is the rules. Maybe JIT is allowed if you use special iOS apis? It seems like the chakra-core might be built in a way that it works on android...?

Sam: In any case: mozilla is not creating a gecko-view for ios. _(or spider-monkey)_

Martin: For us in react-native we don't really need a gecko-view. We just need a node-js-like architecture with a different runtime.

Sam: Yeah that is how the dat-webex we have similar issues. We need to provide all the functionality of node somehow with shims and other tricks.

Martin: This is all pretty cool. If there would be something like react-native with the firefox engine, that'd be awesome. And if the effort done by the cliqz plugin or rather its part of the dat-functionality could be kept general that'd be nice I think.

The problem I try to solve is that if someone starts a react-native project, I'd like to have at least a demo-setup or a simple tutorial for running their own apps, decentralized apps with it. The udp/tcp problem is one of this, but also everything crypto and I keep the user-interface seperate for the moment. Like how sleeping works in the background etc. If there was a unified setup that problem would be solved for me. If that problem is solved using react-native, or (as just mentioned in the chat) cordova or with firefox engine (spidermonkey). All would be fine.

Sam: Oh, I just got a message from my colleage _(Krzysztof)_ and he can join us soon.

Krzysztof: Sorry for jumping in now. Martin, I just got your blogpost from sam and really like what you are working on. I just wanted to quickly mention that we found some success implementing the window.crypto API. It does a lot of string transformations and is slow but it works as a proof-of-concept. Gotta run to the next meeting.

Martin: Awesome, thank you for showing your face. I am available at different times for a call, please ping me!

Krzysztof: I will do and get the contact from Sam. See you soon!

### Why Dat on mobile and dat in general?

Alex: If you don't mind me asking. Do I get this right: The dat project should tries to create a mobile application to look at dat archives. 

Martin: Oh yeah! Dat is a lot of things. but generally: We try to get dat running on mobile phone. We want to have the dat protocol, the data transfer system and they cryptographic tools working on react-native. This does not necessarily mean that we will have a browser for this. Though, that is what Krzysztof and sam are working on! They work on trying to get dat to firefox or the firefox architecture. And btw. I think Sams efforts are stellar, though I should use it more.

Alex: Does then dat work on firefox already?

Martin: How well does it work?

Sam: Yeah, I have another extension that works in firefox, but you need to install a separate node application for it to work. In the Cliqz browser it works but for it to work in Firefox we need to have them signed as "privileged" to access those API's and we have been in talks with Mozilla to make that happen but its moving slowly.

> Note-taking: there has been a jump in conversation.

Martin: Back to topic, it is about getting dat to work mobile. This does not just mean that what is shared with the command-line tool but also to add other implementations within the dat ecosystem. The name or term "dat" has changed in recent times for tools like cabal-chat, or cobox and the kappa-architecture from cobox to also be part of "dat". To act as community based on the dat protocol and on the shared technical concepts and other system. My goal is that it fundamentally works for all these things. Currently I am looking into react-native but I am also looking at other options.

Alex: Alright, I will follow this conversation, but I need to get to the next meeting. I can follow the conversation in the gitter chat, right?

Martin: Yes, and you can ask questions in the dat-comm-comm as issue or just join the next weekend. You can also start a meeting on your own. I will hold the next meeting in two weeks and only this time we were in a situation that _everybody_ spoke german.

Alex: We as developer-team for human-connection just founded a separate, independent, non-profit organization that focuses about the technical part of the network. We founded [busfaktor ev](https://www.busfaktor.org/de) - as in truck-factor. I did look at [the bridge]() that to show dats in http - that did work somehow okay - that I wanted to test in our network in the near future. Maybe we can have a conversation outside of this as the other engineers did not know about dat at all. I am not all that strong technically, I am an artist and tinkerer and am not always in the position to explain everything properly technically. I can maybe organize a meeting here where can introduce dat to our group.

Martin: Yeah. We do that often publically so everyone can join.

Alex: Maybe with the premise to record it and publish it online. As non-profit we do have the job to share knowledge after all. 

Martin: Sure, let us know when you need something. I wish you fun at your meeting?

Alex: Ciao!

### Dat 2.0 in the browser

Martin: Do we have something you want to talk about, Sam?

Sam: One thing I thought about was in getting this Dat2.0 to work. the geut folks came up with this sodium-javascript-plus. 

Martin: I am also following it closely.

Sam: I was trying to put it together but I couldn't get it to work between browser and hyperdrive-daemon. I tried to figure out where the issue is but always when I tried to put together an isolated test it works. There is maybe some quirks with the way hyperdrive-daemon has integrated this. Basically the fail-case is when hosting a dat from hyperdrive daemon the handshaking is failing in some way. I need to narrow it down more where this may be. Essentially I can have the same code when the browser is talking to node yet it is not working

Martin: Node talking to daemon works, right?

Sam: Yes, I have the code working in node, then I browserify it with sodium-javascript-plus and it doesn't work. I can log at the same point and in the browser version it gets a load of zero-bytes. I am trying to dig into that.

Martin: I am sorry to ask because I am really unfamiliar with this. The web version, to get dat to work, it requires webrtc, right?

Sam: I have two ways to reproduce this. One is with a branch of dat-webext where I use the tcp socket as I am using the tcp polyfill there. The other one is using RangerMauve's dat-sdk using the hyperswarm-web which uses a websocket to pipe via some socket server with the actual instance to replicate with. Those are using hyperswarm to connect to the instance and talking directly with it. But the handshakes just fail and don't get the data. When I try to build a simple-case, in this workaround hypercore-8 browser to a websocket server that directly connects and in that case it works. I am wondering what introduces this bug. 

Martin: To this day I do not quite understand the purpose and functionality of the noise protocol. Do you get it?

Sam: I don't know much. I know about the replication protocol and how it works. What I understand is that noise is a standardized channel encryption. On the old protocol there was channel a custom encryption so it standardizes that. It also gives peer identification so 

but beyond that I don't what it brings. The library being used for noise is not entirely compliant with the noise standard.

Martin: I heard that too. The reason why I am asking is; I am not sure how the handshake is used in the protocol. It might be that the noise protocol is used from node-to-node but not node-to-browser?! Maybe??

Sam: Depends how the detection is done. The idea was that the everything works just normally. 

Martin: lets make an announcement on this (on dat-comm-comm). Backing up a bit: I will talk to Krzysztof more to talk about getting dat to run on react-native because one of the arguments that I put in the article was that if we use the API's they are not gonna be synchronous because react-native only allows asynchronous bridges. So either sodium needs to be changed to asynchronous calls - all promise based and not callback based which and that is something that the dat community - for performance reasons - has been traditionally against at. Getting lib-sodium to be simply replaced would be tricky and because its going between the threads there is a lot of memory replication is going on so it will be slow. I am not sure how big the factor this is going to be, but I am pretty sure that running the cryptography on a different thread than the javascript that consumes it is going to be a heavy task as there is a lot of memory allocation going on (2x, 3x, 4x ...). To transform 5MB of data it might easily go into 20MB etc. nodejs-native **does** run in javascript using chakra-core and it might possible to build sodium-native for that. Right now it is not running, if you use nodejs-native now and the projects that use it right now will fall-back to sodium-javascript. It does not matter if its nodejs-mobile or in the react-native thread, we need to run sodium-javascript. The third implementation to script

Sam: The other approach that we can get is to get higher-level primitives working. So if we say the use of threads is standard and expose the noise-protocol is working and run that stuff on native. 

Martin: Sending everything to noise and do the encryption in the noise thread there is still a lot of things to do on the dat level. And I always find ways how memory is at least duplicated. Bottom-line is I want sodium-javascript to work and I talked to mafintosh about that. He is also interested in getting this work. We asked mafintosh for an estimate by hyperdivision on how to get this running and in regular data. Thinking would be when we have the estimate is to ask the public for supporting the estimate.

Sam: Would the implementation be in JavaScript or WASM. 

Martin: In the post at the bottom I am mentioning that WASM isnt available on RN.

Martin: So, this would have to be a raw javascript implementation. The issue there is crypto in raw javascript you don't have access to the right entropy. You are right that getting access to the entropy is tricky but it should work. In browser ise 

> implementations are not using a truly random number generator, but they are using a pseudo-random number generator seeded with a value with enough entropy.

Sam: We may have one also in our project. We had some issue a while back in the past where `Math.random` is used and basically ran into an issue where it was possible to reconstruct a secret.

Martin: Over the past weeks I have seen a version that implemented this properly, but I dropped the link now. But how it works is that you have a first call that you need to await but after that the first call is asynchronous and subsequent calls are synchronous.

Sam: Oh but that means that we need to be careful if some things are loaded in the modules before that. In some cases the 

Martin: I feel like there is a good control over the loading order in react-native, that should not be an issue. Just to close the conversation now: this can be done.

Sam: My next meeting is starting. Lets call it a day and thanks for hosting.

Martin: Thanks and all the best, see you next time!
