# Dat comm-comm 2020-05-14

## Attendees

- [Sam](https://github.com/sammacbeth)
- [Martin](https://github.com/martinheidegger)
- [Kryzstof](https://github.com/chrmod)

## DAT-pad

_Sam:_ As the future of cliqz is unclear I have been working on [dat-pad](https://github.com/sammacbeth/dat-pad/blob/master/index.js) a p2p editor. https://pad.dat-web.eu/#fb428b5a97db216d3e529c0b64d8091b90f1f36fc29e6dc936866a6fff130b89

_Martin:_ Nice! Thanks for sharing. Okay, i am on the page, and it should work right? Hmm, can't see anything. 

_Sam:_ Maybe the webrtc-connection is taking a while?

_Martin:_ I have the dev-tools open. It seems like the downloading of the bundle is slow. Its a few megabytes and still downloading...

_Sam:_ Do you have maybe a slow internet connection?

_Martin:_ The connection is not slow, but you know: its far! Where do you host that server? In europe?

_Sam:_ Yeah, its a Nuernberg Hetzner server. You know the bundle size, it is just that big when you bundle hypercore using browserify.

_Martin:_ Alright, here we go. Let's see if this works. The performance was problematic but now its fine. Can I try to edit some japanese text? Can you edit, add some text above my japanese text? ... Thanks! So, what I am testing here is that, to enter japanese text there is a IME input box and what I was testing if changes in the part of the document will break the IME editing. And - it works fine!

_Sam:_ I am relying on an editor library [CodeMirror](https://codemirror.net/), and am assuming the [CDRT](http://y-js.org/) will handle the different type of characters automatically sync everything. Codemirror will send changes to the CDRT and send an update to the document which I write in a hypercore that is synced. On the other end I just apply merge.

_Martin:_ Its nice! Very nice.

_Sam:_ The functionality should be work, its a bit slow but this has always been an issue with browserifying stuff. With a bit of effort I should be able to 

_Martin:_ Browserify, right ... I did implement a tool once, ... 8 years ago, to analyse the bundle for size... And i should be putting a warning here: We are helping with sodium-javascript now and there was the question if "will a few megabytes"-bundle size be an issue for react-native. And on react-native that is fine... but in a browser...

_Sam:_ At the moment this is mostly a proof-of-concept for a library that has a datastructure on top of it.

_Martin:_ Its wonderful! I love it!

_Sam:_ The difference with things like Kappa that I try to put into this: You see there are number writers at the top. Unlike [multifeed](https://github.com/kappa-db/multifeed) - which just broadcast all of the feeds and anyone can add themselves. With this one we have seperate set of feeds - metadata feeds - that are the permissions. You start with the address in the URL bar. That is the root. The root is a metadata feed. It writes a shared document that authorizes other feeds for different contexts. When I connect to you, you will broadcast your feed addresses to me, because I can write/control the metadata feed, then I can say this feed is authorized for metadata or just a document feed. You would be able to edit the document but not able to add new writers. It is like a permission system on top. You could implement different behaviours. I could have alist of peers on the side and I could click to allow you or not.

_Martin:_ You automatically added me now?

_Sam:_ Yes, I have a policy setup that will automatically grant you the metadata permission. On your end you will grant yourself automatically access to grant to the document feed. At the moment, this is done without user prompts but it could be done with user prompt. Maybe I can ...

_Martin:_ No, its alright - this gives me a thought of how I wish things could work.

## Decentralized identity and Zero Knowledge stores

_Martin:_ You are running into two problems here. You get peers but you don't know _who_ that peers is. And you have the data now but that data is not encrypted. You are working here interesting work, you are moving things that cryptpad does into dat, and I think that is super cool. The extensions are really nice and all.

But from the UI perspective I think the there are two things here that are really tricky: One is replication - zero -knowledge replication - to make sure that the data can be stored somewhere.  And the second one being "What is a user". Beaker Browser - which we will get tonight - will have some user system built into it, but i got the feeling that its not quite at a point where I would like to have.

These two issues are very important for me when working on Consento. All the data that goes into a hypercore needs to be additionally encrypted, and the second thing is when you add a person: how do you verify that it's that person. Keybase is bought by zoom - which makes it not good for me. And the question becomes how do I define a identity in a p2p manner?

In consento the thing that I would like for Consento to become a store. In your application when I access the browser, it has the means to decrypt the data. Either through a browser extension or companion app. Maybe an app on a mobile phone that uses a 2fa. So there is nothing stored in that server, and all communication goes through those devices.

Am I right that right now things are stored in the server?

_Sam:_ In this demo? No, all hypercores are persisted in indexdb in your browser and nowhere else.

_Martin:_ If I clear the cache the indexdb is dead.

_Sam:_ Yes, if you clear the cache I would need to re-authorize you. There are two issues that you are wondering and one is global identity, like keybase which does it using github or twitter. In this example you have a local identity which is tied to your local identity from the noise protocol. With the peer-key and feeds its possible to reidentify. Now I don't know if I can use a twitter handle or so.

_Martin:_ Identity is a broad term, it doesn't need to be global but needs to be reusable.

_Sam:_ It needs to be anchored somewhere. About zero-knowledge replication I had a discussion last year at dtn with mafintosh. Zero-knowledge replication is not a solved problem in academia yet (or in research). You can still see metadata and which peers you connect to, and even if its encrypted you will still see things like how large the data is and stuff like this. What we think is that the metadata would be open and we would just know what the peers are. They would see the metadata feeds and it would just tell what feeds to replicate. That should be possible in the robot list I would have encrypted docs and with the password I would decrypt the actual entries in the document.

_Martin:_ Yes, I need that. I wish it was more low-level because all the communication is doing encryption at the moment. Encryption is slow on mobile and double the encryption is just stressful.

_Sam:_ We talked with mafintosh about this, and until there is a good solution for this available there is no good way to put this into hypercore. You could make it possible to replicate a hypercore and with an additional key it would be 

_Martin:_ I think its very clear to people that a zero-knowledge store does have knowledge of when a connection happens or how much is stored. In the mydata community a zero-knowledge store knows obviously what sort of data is stored. I think its always referred to a solution with those limitations. Probably what I would do is to do a key-derivation on dat and even use a separate DHT. So you derive a "zero-knowledge" key from a regular key and share the encrypted data on a different DHT.

On another topic: there can not be a deduplication in a zero-knowledge store. If you put the same video on two instances in a zero-knowledge store they will not look same. So there is no duplication here. Unlike a hyperstore, all blocks will always be different data. And as such it should not try to de-duplicate related hypercores - i.e. when the same two hypercores are linked between two drives, the store needs to make sure that all the hypercores are consumed as one.

_Sam:_ it is more constraint. Does this implementation work on top of random-access-storage.

_Martin:_ That is where I wanted to put it first.

_Sam:_ The issue with the protocol is that the protocol needs to know where the blocks are.

_Martin:_ When you put this at the random-access-store level but if you have multiple cores, and the 
core names would need to be encrypted as well. It could be an entire adapter that encrypts everything.

_Sam:_ You could dump the encrypted data on the list.

_Martin:_ I think there can be a namespace in random-access-storage. But this conversation now by-passes that storage. My problem is that I do not want mobilephones to do all that encryption! My thinking was that there is a PC companion app and on a mobile phone it would access the data from the PC-peer and not the zero-knowledge storage, shifting the en-/decryption to that peer

To me its a user-interface issue. From a user-interface datpad does it transparently. Its a little like this zoom video recording, and zoom just added a "encrypted" sign on top to highlight that it wasn't encrypted before.

If I have two datpads, one is e2e encrypted and one that isn't then users don't understand the difference. It reminds me of https/http difference where the url wasn't enough to highlight that one was secured, and one wasn't.

_Sam:_ That is an UX issue, and it could be easily solved with a password popup.

_Martin:_ If the link is all that is needed to access the data, that might be tricky. Well, to make sure that mistakes are avoided I thought its a good idea to have a whole separate dht(network) that assumes that all data shared is zero-knowledge data and all the peers and data. 

_(Kryzstof joins, we summarize the current place, joke about the weather)_

_Martin:_ I thought it might be nice to have it on a protocol level, where the protocol is like: hey! I know the password, do you know it? Yes! I do: okay lets replicate it not-encrypted. - so it would be shared with peers knowing the password, and not with peers that dont.

_Sam:_ This would be a modification to the protocol where it would be sharing the encrypted data in once case and a non-encrypted data in another case.

_Martin:_ Yes, that is something I think would be nice.

Having a different random-access-storage with a password should work technically, that has an additional password with all the feeds, that adds passwords to feeds. _maybe_ The feed-names might need to be encrypted as well but the arbritary number of feeds for backups (public stores, for replication) and its regular dat and they need to know which cores need to be replicated and encrypting the names might be tricky here.

## React Native progress

_Kryzstof:_ A question to you Martin: how is the expo operation are going (bringing dat to expo)?

_Martin:_ We (Consento) are supporting sodium-friends to get sodium-javascript to run on react-native. And Christophe Dietrichs has started working on three branches to add the missing features:

- https://github.com/chm-diederichs/sodium-javascript/tree/chacha
- https://github.com/chm-diederichs/sodium-javascript/tree/ed25519
- https://github.com/chm-diederichs/sodium-javascript/tree/modular

We hope that this could be finished within a month.

_Kryzstof:_ So you want to start doing it in plain-js. You were also mentioning the buffered filesystem for expo.

_Martin:_ Oh Yeah! :sweat_smile: - I havn't been working on this. There are some functions in sodium(native) that are not in sodium javascript and we use that in Consento. Those functions are not really supposed to be used that way. So the last two weeks I have been modifying the networking stack to not use those functions. I am about to finish the work here and then I can focus on the file-system.

_Kryzstof:_ What do you think what performance does the Iphones have? When we talk about slow phones we usually think of Android phones. But do you think iOS would be a problem?

_Martin:_ Currently for consento we use the libsodium.js javascript version and we test it on Android and on iOS and - with expo - and performance wise the iOS computations seem to be just about as fast as on Android.

_Kryzstof:_ So? Slow?

_Martin:_ It is slow, yes, but iOS devices are about as fast as modern Snapdragon 8 devices. Even older iOS devices (like from my wife) have been quite fast in tests. It will drain the battery but for the time being it should work. With Consento I really did some unnecessary operations and with sodium-javascript I think we should be alright.

_Martin:_ In previous meetings I talked about that I want to have a crowd-funding support this. But because the times are tense and we didn't want to risk community issues we are funding it ourselves. Sad, but that is how it is. Sam, you are using the geut sodium variant, right?

_Sam:_ Yes.

_Martin:_ Maybe a merged version of christophes work could be tested :wink:

## Asynchronous sodium

_Kryzstof:_ I would like to stress this a little bit more: I think you would do good if you could consider all the crypto operations to be async by default. You are now bound to the fact that operations are synchronous. When you think seriously about performance you, it makes sense to put them off-thread and get some hardware acceleration it. And it will be more pain in the future if you won't do it.

_Martin:_ This is not my decision, I don't have the energy or time to do this. There is quite a lot of things that need to be changed for this, and in long term we have better solutions for this - like ... rust.

_Kryzstof:_ You mean native bindings, so again: sync right?

_Martin:_ No, I mean the whole dat stack or even application to be written in rust. to the crypto. All the operations running in its own thread would definitely be the fastest route.

_Kryzstof:_ That would be a big jump?!

_Martin:_ It is a big jump, but maybe not as big as you think, if the api's are layed out. Particularly with the multithreading it feels like the bottle neck currently is really more in moving the data between threads.

_Kryzstof:_ I am more thinking about the interop with the web. The work of Sam that tries to bridge between two environments would not be needed if we could rely on those api's. If we only agree on how we rely on those api's it would be easier.

_Martin:_ Thank you, you are right. I don't know if the CryptoSutble and libsodium implementation are equal in functionality and results. For the browser there is a shared arraybuffer and you can do the crypto in a worker. It might make more sense to put it in a worker.

_Kryzstof:_ Basically, CryptoSubtle operations are asynchronous. You don't know how the browser implements these, they may run it off-thread or some hardware if that is able to utilize the resources better.
