# Dat Community Ecosystem Communication

04 Jun 2020

## People

* Diego (@dpaez)
* nina
* alex
* mauve
* Kevin Faaborg
* vin
* hugo
* metanomial
* ADD YOURSELF HERE :)

## Meeting Notes

- Intros

- Diego: Welcome. This is your community time, to talk about what you're doing with dat or hyper, maybe ask some questions. My name is Diego, and what we can do now is some intros. Tell us about yourself. I work at GEUT, this company loves to build things using decentralized stuff, mostly hyper
- Mauve: working with dat/hyper, working on dat-sdk, so if you wanna build an app check it out
- Kevin: Coming from ara.one, it's a destkop p2p and cryptocurrency app where creators can get donations and get their content out without worrying about rules and limitations of big platforms.
- Alex: Working on the playproject's Datdot project. A p2p hosting platform, working on something that will also be used in the browser. People who run the client to use the hosting can also use any hypercore based data structure in the browser. Similar to crypto wallets or password managers that will work in the browser.
- Nina: What I'm currently working on is putting all our concepts into documentation, people are asking how it works, trying to put things together and write things down to make sure how it works and change any concepts. This is the current process, it's fun.
- Vin: I just joined because I stumbled into IRC with a question and saw this meeting was starting and open to everyone. I'm trying to use hypercore to build serverless forums, multiplayer websites

### Dat Event

- Diego: Dat event extended their deadline, have until the end of June to submit something. There's many projects, and they don't need to be a complete idea, we tend to work in silos and are a bit disconnectd so these ideas can get lost, with the Dat event it'll be a space to share. Maybe you can tell us a bit more about something you've been working on using hyper or any part of the dat ecosystem. You can submit here: https://events.dat.foundation/2020/ If you have any questions feel free to reach me or any other organizers on IRC or email if you're stuck or have questions.
- Nina: Question about the event, if people apply are there going to be some that get rejected? DO we not have enough? How do we attract more?
- Diego: We don't plan to reject talks, we need to get a good number. One thing we will do is help if the idea or submission is to open or is lacking shape we could help plan how to tell that story. If there's a workshop we might talk a bit more about how to do the workshop, or if it's a presentation and we had any questions we'd address that via email. It'd be a good time to use the opportunity to promote and talk about different things that people are building using hyper.
- Alex/Nina: What tools/software will we be using?
- Diego: Going to use big blue button. Looking at infrastructure and how to scale it. Mauve helped connect us with people that work with BBB. It's pretty easy and it has good experience for sharing slides and share other content. It gives you a lot of flexibility. It looks like a good tool to use. We can probably write something and share about the tools and how we can address the tools.
- Nina: Also the track, since it's a new format and we don't know what it will look like, it'd be nice to know how to prepare and stuff, haven't done online before.
- Diego: Good question, will start addressing questions next week. It depends on the type of presentation or talk, if there's a workshop maybe we'll need to ask somethings and check on limits. Presentations will likely be more easy. There's room to try interactive things or Q&A or a chat after a talk. While that sounds simple I think it's powerful and it works.

- Mauve: shares this idea: https://github.com/cliqz-oss/dat-webext/issues/159. Looking for opinions/feedback around it.
  - using a extension strategy for supporting hyper structures more easily in the browser.
  - if it can make it into dat-webext then we can try to add it to brave. That could be a good way to propagate P2P APIs.
  - minimal sets of changes to be adopted by browsers ("simplify the load on their sides")

- FROM THE CHAT:
  - kevin what's the relationship between unwalled.garden and Webmention (if any)
  - Mauve: None
  - Kevin: is it the same general use case though? https://indieweb.org/Webmention
  - Mauve: Webmention is based on RDF stuff, I think. So yeah it's similar

- DEMO TIME woohoo! :tada:
 - kevin shares something related to static generators and the decentralized web.
 - it's like jekyll/hugo experience for beaker.
 - hugo shares (from the chat):
   - There is SneakyWiki, which might interest you: `hyper://1c6d8c9e2bca71b63f5219d668b0886e4ee2814a818ad1ea179632f419ed29c4/`
   - Uses Frontend to "route" requests and process from there
 - goal: have a static site generator for the regular web and beaker

 - FROM THE CHAT:
  - vin: is anyone working on multi-writer hypercore web stuff with the dat sdk? is there a supported system for working on that? documentation for making a chat system mentions https://github.com/kappa-db/multifeed but that appears to be native only. Just trying to discover the supported path forward, still learning lingo and best practices
  - vin: I'm also using vue to create a static site in normal web browsers, but less focused on editing html, just passing messagesâ€©
  - mauve: check out kappa and cobox projects. Hopefully this summer I'm going to play more with `multi-hyperdrive`.
  - vin: I'm currently using https://github.com/chr15m/bugout to pass messages but wanted to look into hyper because it solves efficiency, gossip protocol. thanks
  - nina&alex: they also share: https://github.com/datproject/comm-comm/issues/134#issuecomment-604808606

Wrapping up: thanks to everyone who joined today! See you in the next comm-comm meeting! Chao! :wave:


