# Dat Community Ecosystem Communication

18 Jun 2020

## People

* Diego (@dpaez)
* mauve
* karl moubarak
* FB
* micah
* ADD YOURSELF HERE :)

## Meeting Notes

- Intro

- Diego: Welcome to a new comm comm meeting. This is a community time to share your projects or ideas to do with Dat or Hypercore Protocol. One thing we do is create an agenda for meetings on the fly. There's no comments on the issue, but next time if you have a topic feel free to comment on the issue so we can discuss the topic or prepare something. Lets do a quick intro. I'm Diego from Geut, we work using decentralized tech, mostly hyper.
- mauve: :wave: P2P developer! Also likes VR
- Karl: Met Mauve through email. Haven't met Diego before. I'm a communication design student, doing bachelor. Amature with code, graduating soon, got excited by dat protocol a year ago. A couple of projects based on the SDK.
- Diego: Nice to meet you!
- Karl: Nice to meet you too.
- Diego: The agenda is open
- FB: Just joining to listen in, don't have much to add today.

### Dat Event

- Diego: Dat event happening at the end of the July. Team is continuing on organizing. Focusing on infrastructure, planning to use Big Blue Button. Looking for help, another team is helping with setting up the server. Focusing on that for this week, solving economic issues. Everything going well. Hopefully next week we'll start writing back to people that sent submissions for the event. Submissions are still open. Personally would like to get in touch and say something back to speakers. Help them with workshops or talks that they want to give at the event. Hopefully we'll write more soon. There's a newsletter that should be sent, might transform it into a blog post.
- Submit your talk today: https://events.dat.foundation/2020/

### Dweb Browser Project from Mauve

- Mauve: Beaker is well known browser in the decentralized world. APIs are a bit beaker-centric. Mauve was looking more flexible, so start with this experiment. A while ago mauve reached the author of [web-ext](). A web extension for FF that supports the Dat/Hyper protocol. Mauve proposes to use the well known `fetch` interface to interact with the hypercore protocol. :bulb:
There is a little web browser like an MVP, currently it supports basic navigation. Future goal, integrate more with webext and being able to develop webapps using this stack. Compat with other apps built using hyper. Current version based on electron. comrad is working on another gateway browser project, which is compatible with mobile apps.
- Project: https://github.com/RangerMauve/dweb-browser
- dat web-ext: https://github.com/cliqz-oss/dat-webext, https://github.com/cliqz-oss/dat-webext/issues/159
- Micah: its an alternate API?
- Mauve: similar to beaker but offers low level apis more easily. Not only for hyperdrives but also hypercores.
- Micah: there would be more interfaces (writing, not only reading)
- Mauve: yeah, writing interface is a goal!
- Micah: rest-like interface for hypercores :cool:
- Mauve: goal, use it from anywhere. Anything that can do a `fetch` request should work.
- Mauve: would love to see more extension around, built with this stack.
- Micah: it would be possible to have some sort of shim of beaker APIs?
- Mauve: yes, it is possible.
- Mauve: for the dweb browser, extension are super important
- Micah: can you give more context on web extensions?
- Mauve: there is this cool module, called electron extension. It lets you load web ext using electron. Loads the same web ext that works in other browsers. Except that now they have P2P support for free.
- Micah: modularize functionality easily to be drop/ported to every browser.
- mauve: portable extensions everywhere
- micah: mobile support?
- Mauve: comrad from gateway browser its interested in adopting the API of dweb browser. dont know if gateway browser would be able to support extensions. web extensions are a cool way to delegate things out from the browsers, user-space stuff.
- Mauve: one the fetch thing is done, it would be nice to have a nodejs version, so it becomes easier to adopt it.
- Mauve: VR stuff support will be there eventually. :muscle:

### random-access-keychain

- Micah: Been lingering on chats for years, but never written any code. Finally wrote some code. There was `random-access-keychain` module that someone made, plugged in with a cross platform node keychain module that is maintained by the Atom team. Now random-access-keychain works on Windows, Linux, and MacOS so you can store secrets in the system keychain manager, which isn't all that secure, but will encrypt the secrets when the device is turned off. Which is useful if someone's device is stolen. Been thinking of usability for people who may be in vulnerable situations and about trust / identity.  What do do if someone's device was taken or stolen. That was one big thing I thought about when trying out Beaker. The secret key is on the hard drive, so someone could steal your computer and start publishing lies with your identity. Still work done to get it usable in Beaker. More specifically usable for hyperdrive-daemon. So you can set up the daemon with the secret root key stored in your system keychain if you wanted to.
- Project: https://github.com/lachenmayer/random-access-keychain
- Version 1.1.1 got published for the module, haven't tested Windows, but test pass on Linux and MacOS. One caveat is that if you give node access to the system keychain, any node script can access your system keychain. Not sure how secure that is, but that's just how the system keychain works. Very much a user scoped thing. If you're logged on, any apps you use can access the keychain. Could be better, could be worse.
- Diego: Was thinking that integrating this with the daemon would be super cool, any effort for managing keys would be helpful for the community.
- Micah: Yeah, that's a real world thing that's an afterthought when you're just playing with the tech. When things get hot in the world, security matters
- Mauve: interest on getting this into the dat-sdk.

### CRDTs

- Micah: Any other thoughts or questions? Also been playing with ReasonML, the OCaml thing. Basically OCaml but with more JS-like syntax. My coworker is very prolific at writing code. A few weeks ago he rewrote the JS-delta-crdt library in Python over the weekend. Still doesn't have the causal CrDTS but the basic thing is there. Our idea was to make a cross language CRDT library. Working on a ReasonML implementation. Could work with OCaml or as a JS library. Finally finished the couter CRDT. That's exciting, I'm learning a lot. Last night I got to a place where the interface is decent and all the tests pass. Will see where it goes, I like the delta CRDTs a lot. They're a nice sweet spot where you can do patch based things with them, which I think is really cool.
- Diego: Do you have links to share?
- Will share link to the ReasonML code and python libraries, just a monorepo. Still learning the functional stuff
- Diego: I think CRDTs play well with decentralized things like hyper. You can build really interesting things by combining CRDTs and p2p
- Micah: Goal is to have content addressable patch sets. Imagining having sets with the Delta CRDTs, every time you make a modification you get a little delta. The delta is a compostable piece of state, you can compose it with other deltas or with replicas. I'm imagining of having these sets of deltas that can be used as patch sets that you can maintain in parallel and apply them to a core shared dataset. e.g. it could be used for annotations. If you wanted to pass around some annotations about some existing thing, you could have these patch sets and they could be versioned independently and applied non-destructively on top. That's the use case I'm aiming for.
- Project: https://github.com/micahscopes/delta-crdt/tree/master/src/reason-delta-crdts

### Karl's stuff

- Karl: As always with these calls, I'm not a programmer so bear with me. I'm a design student and an amateur with these things. Seeing if someone is interested in making a desktop applications with me. Inspired by the dat protocol when it was Dat and the ethics behind it. Was thinking a lot about end user interactions with the internet. There's too few computers acting as servers, you just need people to serve files from their computers and more people need to be able to do it. That really simplified this for me, I do a lot of my file sharing with Dat. Wanted to get a lot of people access to this. It's just not user friendly enough. Beaker is a great access point. Dat destkop was a great GUI. But I need people like my grandparents to know what it means and understand how it works for them. I'm trying to come up with an app that's about recycling trash. Based on one folder that's not your trash folder, but a secondary trash folder, called a recycle bin. Has a hyperdrive-daemon or dat thing in it. When you want to move a file to your bin, it'll ask you if you wanna move it to your bin or this other bin. You get a network of recycle bins. I want it to be a social experiment or a thought experiment. To make it user friendly there should be an installer, a pkg file. I don't know a lot about code but know that I can't do it myself. Wondering if you know someone or can direct me or something.
- Diego: Yeah, a good first step is being here on one of these meetings and sharing your idea and project and talk more about what you want to do. Not only for others to be aware of this but also for you. It helps to shape your idea when you explain what's on your mind. Explaining or doing the thing helps you understand more. I think this is a really good step. And then from the community perspective we could try to amplify your voice. Maybe if you can start a repo where you place your ideas or sketches we can boot it. Maybe you could make an issue in the comm comm repo where you can post your ideas so people can share. Talking about it on IRC or Discord could be a good idea.
- Karl: Yeah, that's where I am. I'm mostly interested in seeing this working for other people. Seeing people recycle their trash. I have one GH repo with some hacky scripts. It's docs on how I got it working for myself with apple script and bash. I can get it to work for myself, but I'd want to see my 70 year old graphic design teacher do it.
- Diego: Yeah it's a challenge to address different people. On top of this is the p2p challenge, since that's quite new. It's a place that needs some research. It's open to innovation, how can you communicate these actions is up to you so you can come up with your own ideas. One of the projects I'm a part of, p2pcommons, there's a designer that's putting a lot of effort into UX using p2p applications in a specific context. Hopefully I'm trying to motive them to share some of these thoughts at the Dat event. Anything relating to UX in p2p is super interesting.
- Karl: Yeah. And it's sad that the only way I can get them to use a p2p protocol is to use the outdated dat desktop, Beaker was great but now it's a bit too much. I love the ecosystem and everything, but it becomes a closed system. A GUI is about making it accessible to those that don't need a console.
- Diego: Yeah, I'm thinking this is a thing that needs more sharing and thoughts. haring an idea would be good, and if someone else wants they could jump into this thing and start building something together
- Karl: How can I reach this community more? Is the Dat event going to be live streamed?
- Diego: Yes, it'll be live streamed. We'll be sharing more in the coming days. Our idea is to have this place where we can have a big conversation about p2p projects. Videos will be recorded too. We'll share them after the event. These kinds of things are a need in the community.
- Karl: Could you link to p2p commons?
- Diego: Yeah, it's an early state: https://github.com/p2pcommons/sdk-js, https://github.com/hypergraph-xyz/desktop
- Mauve: What's the point of the recycling bin?
- Karl: You don't put them, you leave them. It's not that you drag files, you get prompted to move it there. Why would anyone want to use it? It's about having other people's trash lying around on your computer. Like an ebook where you want to get it off your computer, someone else might find it and use it. There's more value to files tha
- Mauve: SO you see everyone else's files
- Micah: Like a junkyard or thrift store
- Karl: If you have sensitive files you can put them in the normal bin
- Project: https://github.com/karlmoubarak/A-Recycle-Bin
- Micah: Files will be there where different people will have different ideas about. It might get kinda messy.
- Mauve: Since it's in there, it's not geting deleted. Are you downloading others files on the fly or right away?
- Karl: Have a delete after 30 days option. So there's a Dat in it and files that are there longer than 30 days are deleted permanently. Same convention as a trash folder. Except it's serving them to the internet
- Mauve: was thinking about multi-hyperdrive module idea, combine that with fuse mounting, with that you can have something on top. There is another module called dat-gossip, helps to find other people archives. gossip, build the multi-hyperdrive, list the files from everyone online at the moment.
- Mauve: currently working on natakanu, some of this stack would be used there, dat-gossip and further down the line there would be more features, where multiwriter-hyperdrive would be useful.
