# Dat Ecosystem Community Communication

02 Jul 2020

## People

* Diego (@dpaez)
* mauve
* metanomial
* Kevin
* farah

## Meeting Notes

- Updates
- metanomial, hobbiest programmer using hyper stack and beaker
- kevin, working on ARA.one. Spend a lot of time lately with beaker. Lots of new features. Interested in adding react/vue to beaker.
    - similar idea: https://github.com/geut/yafu, @elmasse has started this work using .ui from beaker together with react.
- mauve: Working on https://github.com/RangerMauve/agregore-browser
- Farah: Haven't done major stuff with Dat yet, discovered in May. Looking at monetization? Don't wanna use etherium, wanna look more into the community
- metanomial: Dat and Hyper get lumped with blockchain, but it's totally different.
- Farah: There's other projects, but they're etherium based, so thinking of alternatives

## gateway browser

- latest update: https://twitter.com/pfrazee/status/1278509205461360640?s=20
- looks cool :fire:

## distinctions btw hyper and blockchain

- metanomial: Simplest way to contrast is that Hyper/IPFS are single writer, where as blockchain everyone is an author and no single authority
- stuff like dat/hyper/ifps can work offline. Offline-first apps.
- hyper projects are usually single writer.

## Dweb meetup impressions

- mauve: it was cool. after talk, inside `gather.town` was awesome.

## Dat Event

- Extended deadline => https://events.dat.foundation/2020/
- Starting to talk to speakers next week to coordinate
- Making efforts on infrastructure, planning to use Big Blue Button

## agregore browser updates

- :new: project: https://github.com/RangerMauve/agregore-browser
- mauve: want some more minimal to leave more room for developers so they can build more stuff on top of it. That's the goal behind agregore.
    - under the hood has a system for loading extensions
    - :100: extension based browser
    - current goal: reach an usable state, improve work around `fetch` api for P2P (hypercore)
    - local-first browser
    - would like to use extension-messages. Being able to re-use peers connections.
    - aiming for having lower level access than what beaker does. So apps can re-use that is working on node now.
    - would like to partner with other projects, help share other projects to share stuff on the web.
    - also would like to collaborate more with `gateway-browser` around fetch api improvements.

## metanomial's project

- metanomial: peer api has been a bit unstable
- mauve: `hyper-presence` module has been helpful. Using flooding.
- metanomial: what's the max latency?
- mauve: if 100ms is acceptable to you, you would be fine. 0 control of the graph of connections. Would like to do some tests. It hasn't been a problem yet.
- latency could be a bit worse than peersockets. If you have less than 100 peers, latency likely wont be a problem.
- MMST lib: tries to reduce overall number of connections while keeping network relatively dense. It would be nice to get that inside hyperswarm but that is a lot of work.
- metanomial shares: `hyper://609a82a6d3df2b564754b0c96d080024cf8e03e042b32a7b0b7c5539b4ae46f7/`

## standards, beaker

- mauve: people feel a bit minimal/powerless compared with big standards bodies like w3c.
- mauve: standards base approach is slow. Longer term this would be standardized
- mauve: one way to tackle the standards questions, is a more collaborative approach, eg: would like to work with gateway-browser, or have a way to standardize http api/usage with other projects like sonar so these projects can work together. collaborative with more angles at once could be more helpful. work together with other protocols.
- metanomial: is there anything like polyfills but for browsers apis.
- mauve: has been working on `dat-fetch` polyfill.
- kevin: has done some progress on static pages for zeronet and similar.
- metanomial: beaker has made things so little to use, great work on simplicity `.ui` is a good example. If that can be standardized that would be good.
- mauve: its simple to use but requires some buying from the browser (hard to make it portable). before it was easier to polyfill beaker.
- kevin: has been avoiding those apis for that reason. It should work everywhere.
