# Dat Ecosystem Community Communication

16 Jul 2020

## People

* Diego (@dpaez)
* mauve
* kevin
* fb
* Hrishikesh (@geekodour)
* Ilya

## Meeting Notes

### Intro

- mauve; working on dat, recently one of their projects has been released open source, meet [natakanu](https://github.com/Wapikoni-Technique/Natakanu/)!. Also working on [agregore](https://github.com/RangerMauve/agregore-browser), a new web browser for P2P protocols. So far read only support for dat and hyper. Other than that I work on [Dat SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dat-sdk).
- kevin: working on [ara.one](https://ara.one/) using dat and ethereum. a multimedia platform for creators! Additional to that has been playing around beaker a lot. Building a more advanced blog-like system for beaker. Kind of moderate tumblr than twitter/redit like.
- fb (farah): working doing decentralization on top of beaker. Using the older version 8.10. Trying to stick on more minimalistic approach.
- Hrishikesh: student with an interest on dat. Learned about dat on a hackaton a year ago. Just like building short snippets learning about p2p net, here to learn.
- Diego: How was the hackathon?
- Hrishikesh: It was fun. Confusing part was all the hyper-x repos. Initially really confusing. Which component reaches where. Now that I see Dat SDK I hope building will be easier.
- Diego: These days, it's something that we as a community are trying to put more effort into, documentation and the such. Hopefully it'll improve and we can have more examples. I guess the Dat SDK is a good entry point to the Dat and Hyper world.
- Diego: No agenda for today, you can always comment on issues to have some sort of agenda. Feel free to propose anything.

### Dat Event Updates

- Diego: There was a lot of progress on the site, put a lot up there. Closed the CFP, got a tentative schedule. Sent a lot of emails to speakers. They are aware they have been selected. You can register to the event there. If you wanna be part of a workshop or talk. If you wanna be there for the Q&A, it's highly recommended to register but it's not mandatory. Will try to stream the event using YouTube. If you go there you can see the agenda and how to register. https://events.dat.foundation/2020/
- Diego: We published a new blog post introducing the event. There you can read about the ideas and motivations behind the event with some sort of context. At the beginning of the year we were thinking of doing it in person, then corona changed things so we'll be online. This is interesting because we can have speakers and attendees from around the world easily. Feel free to check it out. If you want to help us spread the word, tell your friends about it! https://blog.datproject.org/2020/07/15/dat-community-ecosystem-conf-2020/

### Name change

- Hrishikesh: The name change was recent, is it happening everywhere, what is it for?
- mauve: 2 pieces. org and technical side. A couple of years ago there was a WG, but there were few maintainers. It wasnt clear who and how was the process around making progress and developing new features. With the new tech org things should be more explicit. There is also a tech change, mathias and andrew change things like how the P2P net works and the FS interaction, so this was breaking. There is also the community side of it, there are some people with interest of keeping this side alive too, there is a consortium helping with moving away from CS&S to OC. Still a bit messy but still a work in progress.

### Bulding on top of beaker

- Kevin: Curious, Farah, why old Beaker?
- Farah: Tried the new one, didn't like it. Am technical, understand how to use it. Two things: Not useful for mass market, reason bringing incentivisation is to bring non technical, some can't use the new version. Other thing is I'm big on Privacy, it's moving more in the direction of a social platform, different product.
- Kevin: understand use case, can you tell more about the product?
- Farah: Early stages, looking to insentivise the dat protocol. Saw etherium based, not 100% sold. Exploring non technical people using a browser. Trying to do something agnostic, all types of different currencies. Right now am in Canada. Mauve was talking about indigenous communities, looking more at African population. There are tonnes of currencies. Looking to bridge that gap and have people use the Dat protocols. Starting with stable crypto, looking to not just use Etherium.
- Kevin: So it's an app with a crypto wallet? As well as browser like functionality.
- Farah: do you mean a mobile app? I'm not a mobile app dev, very opinionated about walled gardens. Looking for it to be more embedded in a browser. Basically, in the communities I'm going into, having everything be on mobile excludes people, good for mobile, not going to foster more people in the digital economy and having economic mobility
- Kevin: that's even better. Ara doesn't have a mobile app either, has a desktop app. Would be great if this stuff worked just in the browser. Haven;t looked at that yet, if you do desktop you can do everything.
- Farah: Nothing against mobile, my specific goals are focused on economic mobility, it just doesn't start with mobile. Figuring out how to bridge currencies and privacy.
- mauve: would you be interested in trying agregore. Tries to be less more opinionated about how to add the p2p primitives. Interested in supporting different crypto-experiences in the browser. `web-payments` api is an interesting case to explore. Also want to work with gateway-browser. So they can have feature-parity so apps can work on both. wondering how you feel about that?
- Farah: Saw the link in the chat. Will take a look. Trying to find an alternative to Beaker cause the upgrade is going a different direction. Still learning it but v8, doesn't look like it makes sense to stick with it.
- gateway-browser:  https://gitlab.com/gateway-browser/gateway/
- Farah: Would test the browser, would prefer to go in that direction. More people are aware and prioritizing privacy. Generally people don't recognize it. Currently it's too easy to be participating in more social stuff. In a previous call, you were talking about developing a module which is like a data store. Basically instead of someone having to use a cloud service, they could connect to the dat website
- mauve: maybe it was `dat-dot`. You join this network and say "hi anyone can store this data for me?" So its like a _peers-store-service_. There is also a ratio crypto currency idea. Peers share disk. Similar to filecoin. [`dat-store`](https://github.com/datproject/dat-store/) is another alternative for keeping things up.
- Farah: Interpreted it differently. Two things: What doing now is abstracting away from the user. Individuals would download my version of the browser and click a toggle. Automatically selecting people to host content based on geolocation. What I thought you were doing was more so where content creators if they post a website, and if people wanted to take it further and say "I have a product with dynamic content - ecommerce", instead of using AWS, they could have a specific space that's dedicated to like a database.
- Mauve: Like own content or others?
- Farah: Thinking of multiple writers.
- mauve: there is this idea of  a module for having automatic multi writers, layer a bunch of hyperdrives on top of each other. You can query it using this lib. That's kind of a module that would like to put it out and use in other places like natakanu and agregore.
- Ilya: What is the project?
- mauve: its [natakanu project](https://github.com/Wapikoni-Technique/Natakanu/) - P2P for indigenous communities in Canada with a grant of Montreal Uni and ...
- Helps to automatically discover people on the network and share things. Extend that to have write access to other people's projects too.
- mauve: multiwriter is a big feature, that people want. There is another interesting project, https://github.com/cinnamon-bun/earthstar. Hoping to work with the devs to integrate it into agregore, so we can have another mutable p2p structure.


### Webrecorder

- ilya: work on the web archive project, webrecorder its a tool that enable people record things using their browser. Hopefully can use dat so people can easily share their own archives with each other, like a decentralized internet archive.
an older version of the webrecorder has a prototype integration with dat. Still a WIP.
- mauve: added range support to dat-fetch requests
- ilya: thats a really important feature. Ill take a look on that soon. Hoping to work with mauve at some point.
- kevin: maybe someone of your org has demoed something like that on a moz event last year. Everyone was so amazed. Would like to check the webrecorder. in the category of a youtube saver or ig saver, how is webrecorder work that use case, how do you feel about that? records only what you are going throug?
- ilya: it works like that, yeah. Social media is a challenge itself. Its always changing. There is an autopilot in webrecord that tries to animate the browser to run some behaviors. But those behaviors are hard to maintain. Thinking about how to make those things more easier to maintain. There also a repo related in gh: https://github.com/webrecorder/behaviors.
Sharing behaviors would be a top goal.
- kevin: I've been playing around with a tumblr like app for beaker. It would be great to easily move things like a tumblr into this tool or an ig profile. It would be great having the chance to use webrecorder for something like this.
- ilya: yeah, embed import thing on a dat based site would be like a goal, good feature.
- kevin: people download their own videos when platforms tries to keep them or apply more strict policies.

