# AMA Session with Mauve (Agregore Browser)
05-10-2023

## Important Links

- Agregore Site: https://agregore.mauve.moe/
- Agregore Org: https://github.com/AgregoreWeb
- :new: Agregore Tutorials: https://agregore.mauve.moe/docs/#tutorials
- Distributed Press Tools: https://docs.distributed.press/


## Notes

- AMA session intro
- Agregore is a minimal web browser built on top of electron that integrates P2P protocols in the same way that you use http => `ipfs://` `hyper://` `bittorrent://` etc
- Not only GET (like brave) but also POST - we can create content with it!!! :cool:
- Mauve use it daily! 
- Recent change: reader mode! improvements on a11y. Same libs that firefox uses on the background
- Been working with some grants from falcon foundation. Making some tutorials. Initial blog post of 1st round of apps (eg: color picker app = users customizations on agregore)
    - another demo app: a minimal dev environment / code editor included
- mobile agregore app (falcon foundation grant): available for android devices (android v9 and higher). Specific fork of chromium. Also embedded ipfs node onto the browser. Local hotspot. There is an **APK**, get it from github. 
- Some next steps for agregore mobile:
    - Looking for more founding to improve the mesh network communication. 
    - Integrate devtools. Kiwi tooling inspiration. Improves DX. 
- Collaborators: 
    - between 0 and 6 usually. Some PRs accepted, some low hanging fruits to pick and fix. 
    - agregore discord involvement
    - tutorials contributors! 
- Agregore Community:
    - discord server :star: 
    - matrix channel :star: 
    - github discussions/prs
- Working on these days:
    - aiming to be a member of hypha coop
    - working on distributed press
        - used to publish to the P2P web / static sites / push out content automated
    - CI/CD compatible
    - a complement to agregore
        - agregore is more for hacking locally
    - compat with activity pubs
    - new spec for P2P activity pubs 
    - follow the same philosopy than with agregore - use existing protocols and add more! <3
- Official Tutorials
    - They are officil and will be maintained
    - part of the docs! 
    - up to 7 tutorials planned
    - how to get started coding with P2P apps (for begginners and intermediate devs)
- Q: So people can re-use their agregore apps in the normal web?
    - local browsers dont allow to do fully P2P
    - you need a server / separate process
    - there are some tradeoffs
    - on the JS side of things, most of the modules are built on top of a P2P-compatible-fetch API. 
        - you can bundle on a regular app
        - design your app around those limitations 
    - gateways are important
        - you can use public gateways
        - loads natively on agregore, brave, etc
    - auto-js-ipfs project
        - ipfs across platforms automatically
- Q:  Could the core mobile API  be used in Apps like https://gadgetbridge.org/  so that data e.g. wearable data can be stored to e.g. hyperdrive so the sqlite file or source data would then be save directly under each peers control and free other uses?
    - YES
    - as easy as get any P2P protocol running on a mobile app
    - ipfs example - embed that into your app
    - similarly for desktop apps, there is a cubo daemon.
    - if you want interop, talk to the data and the individuals protocols
    - agregore simplifies building and distributing p2p apps
    - lots of breaking changes for hypercore recently / waiting for a more stable version
- Q: What is Agregore's approach to key management? Ie, if I'm switching devices, I would still want to be able to update my IPNS pointers, or write to my hyperdrives.
    - not good solutions yet
    - looking for some budget to improve the experience here
    - at the moment you can copy past your data folders to another device and that's it
- Q: pinning a site
    - easiest way: 
        - for hyper and bt, just load it (and download the content)
        - for ipfs, you can do pretty much that. also get the root content and pin it. ipfs handles dedups.
- Q: agregore persona
    - not the typical the user of the web
    - a more minimal, hackable approach. Encourage to build more extensions and think differently.
    - made for folks who **want to thinker** and make the browser their own
    - folks who build software for local communities
- Q: Not directly related to agregore, but when you looked into "mutable bittorrent"...is that similar to hypercore or hyperdrive?
    - torrents are immutable by nature, you cant update them 
    - bittorrent-dht has an extension that you can also to publish a small amount of data and use that as a mechanism to update where to look data. Torrents are periodically pulling from that place looking to see if something changed. 
    - not much in use in the wild - agregore is one of the few with a WIP implementation. 
    - So slow compared to hyperdrives.
    - Similar to IPNS except the pub-sub.

*Thank you amigos, see you on the next AMA!*